---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/1-revelation-space/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
Sylveste had only to instruct his eyes to do likewise (Revelation Space 6)

Interface with the cache-weapons through neural implants (Revelation Space 34)

Ultranauts, evidenced by their tendency towards paleness, spindly build, flaunted body augmentation, swathes of black leather and acres of glinting jewellery, tattoos and trade-trophies (87)
Icebombers were a Skyjack offshoot; psychomodified for the extreme solitude which came from working in the Kuiper belt zones (Revelation Space 87)

Gillies were aquatically modified humans who breathed liquid air; capable of crewing short-range, high-gee ships. ... Some gillies were so incapable of normal respiration and locomotion that they had to move around in huge robotic fishtanks when not on duty (Revelation Space 87)

Conjoiners: descendants of an experimental clique on Mars who had systematically upgraded their minds, swapping cells for machines, until something sudden and drastic had happened. In one moment, they escalated to a new mode of consciousness — what they called the Transenlightenment ... recently they had bio-engineered huge and beautiful cranial crests for themselves, veined to dissipate the excess heat produced by the furious machines in their heads (Revelation Space 87-88)

you had to have specialised neuro-auditory implants before teeconax music made any sense (Revelation Space 114)

Khouri realised with a tingling feeling that the woman had no implants; that her fingers were actually one of the ways by which she communicated (Revelation Space 121)

When you're fully subsumed by the gunnery, that's how it'll feel — your own body image swelling out to take in the ship itself (Revelation Space 163)

his eyes were only perceiving three of four images a second. The world moved with the stuttering motion of the pencil cartoons children made in the corners of books (Revelation Space 215)

#### About Biological Manipulation
The Mixmasters were a cliquish guild of Stoner bioengineers and geneticists (Revelation Space 176)

I am empowered ... to marry individuals of this settlement, unless such union conflicts with the genetic fitness of the colony (Revelation Space 176)

Asking if there were anyone present who had any bioethical reasons as to why the marriage should not take place (Revelation Space 185)

Even my body needs sleep occasionally. I tried dispensing with it once; there are drugs you can take (Revelation Space 228)

tales of bioengineered human splinter-species cultured under ice of worlds like Europa, or of merpeople, bio-adapted for life in totally flooded spacecraft (Revelation Space 295)

Wedding ritual in pages 177 and 178, then 185 and 186 (wedding gun!!!. 

#### About Cloning
He cloned himself ... Using illegal black genetic techniques, calling in favours from some of his shadier clients ... That way he was able to pass off the clone as his son (Revelation Space 183)

Young colonies almost always outlaw it in the interests of ensuring maximum genetic diversity (Revelation Space 183)

He knew the scanning process that he and the other members of the Eighty would have to endure would destroy his material body, so he wanted a body to which he could return if life in the machine turned out not to be to his liking (Revelation Space 184)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Chimerics\|Chimerics]]
Hegazi was grinning, or at least trying very hard to approximate the gesture; no mean feat given the amount of chimeric accessories which encrusted his face (Revelation Space 274)

Her face was sleek, as if optimised for some unspecified aquatic environment. Her catlike eyes were gridded red orbs with no pupils ... A true Ultra, in other words, of uncertain and almost certainly non-Darwinian provenance. (Revelation Space 295)

Hegazi had further submerged his core humanity in machine supplements, exchanging various prosthetic parts for newer or more elegant substitutes (Revelation Space 365)

Description of chimeric bodies in page 71. 

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
wore their hair in the customary Ultra manner, fashioned in thick braids to indicate the number of reefersleep stretches they had done (Revelation Space 87)

We'll probably pop back in a century or two and see if things have picked up, but personally, I wouldn't mind if I never saw the place again (Revelation Space 117)

Ultras have access to technologies considered taboo on colony worlds ... Instruments for manipulating loyalty may be among them (Revelation Space 134)

Soon the woman's loyalty would be so strongly instilled that it would transcend mere obedience and become an animating compulsion, a principle to which she could no more fail to adhere to than a fish could choose to stop breathing water (Revelation Space 141)

They were no ordinary Ultras ... They'd been out there too long; too long away from what we'd think of as a normal human existence (Revelation Space 289)

I'm brezgatnik. I have nothing in me that the plague can touch (Revelation Space 428)
#### About Longevity Treatments
Sylveste was eight years into his third century, but the longevity treatments he had received on Yellowstone had been more advanced than any available in Calvin's time. (Revelation Space 10)

He was well into his fourth century now, and layer upon layer of longevity treatment was beginning to crumble visibly (Revelation Space 13)

anti-senescence drugs (Revelation Space 228)

Rich people get bored and pay for assassins for themselves in pages 52-53, then continuing until 58. 
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
Two hundred levels of cryogenic storage bays; sufficient capacity for one hundred thousand sleepers (Revelation Space 19)

so many thousands of its one-time rich were now frozen in cryocrypts, skipping centuries in the hope that this period was only an aberration in the city's fortunes. (Revelation Space 40)

Khouri's clerical error with the Ice Mendicants in page 44
#### About the Environment
breather mask (Revelation Space 1)

Dan's off on some dig while the colony stumbles through a crisis of leadership (Revelation Space 14)

She was descending through forests now: tiered gardens of planetary vegetation grown wild with neglect, and dying, for the UV lamps which had once supplied the forest with sunlight were mostly broken now (Revelation Space 19)

The domes were vital to the city's existence. Yellowstone's atmosphere — a cold, chaotic mix of nitrogen and methane, spiced with long-chain hydrocarbons — would have been instantly deadly (Revelation Space 40-41)

the schism had been between those who wanted to study the Amarantin and those who wanted to terraform Resurgam, thereby establishing the world as a viable colony rather than a temporary research outpost (Revelation Space 62)

political factions differed only in the rates of terraforming they advocated, ranging from slow schemes spread across centuries to atmospheric alchemies so brutal that humans might have to evacuate the planet's surface while they are being wrought (Revelation Space 62)

Some people have breathed naked atmosphere for tens of minutes with no longterm effects (Revelation Space 129)

Two-thirds of the oxygen which entered his lungs would now come from Resurgam's atmosphere, while the remaining third came from a pressurised canister slung beneath the proboscis (Revelation Space 204) 

What were now merely upraised plateaux would become landmasses limned by ocean. Forests would fester across steppes. (Revelation Space 221)

the vapour factories were working, sublimating polar ice into water, oxygen and hydrogen. There were few patches of vegetation large enough to be seen without magnification (Revelation Space 273)
#### About Necroeconomics
'But what about the people, sir?' 'People are to do what they came out here to do. Dig' (Revelation Space 2)

I am killing myself, after all — nothing anyone should take lightly. By involving you, I prolonged the decision and introduced an lement of chance. I might decide life was preferable and resist you, and yet you might still win (Revelation Space 58)

I'm well aware that your usual targets consent to be assassinated before you go after them (Revelation Space 82)

#### About Warfare
She had seen some vile things — things that still haunted her — but she had never seen anything capable of instant, genocidal death (Revelation Space 161)

Antimatter ... The technology's been outlawed for so long almost nobody remembers how to actually make one (Revelation Space 223)

The weapon ... was one of the planet-killers (Revelation Space 239)

Trawl stuff in page 421, 422, 423
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
His own beta-level was doing most of the scut-work on the papers now; Sylveste had trained the simulation to the point where it could imitate his style more reliably than he could (Revelation Space 9)

Calvin seated in a vast seigneurial chair. The apparition was more realistic than any hologram — even down to the subtle shadowing effects — since it was being generated by direct manipulation of Sylveste's visual field. The beta-level simulation represented Calvin in the way fame best remembered him (Revelation Space 10)

'This is his beta-level simulation,' Sylveste said. It was important to clear that up before the conversation proceeded any further; alphas and betas were fundamentally different things and Stoner etiquette was very punctilious indeed about distinguishing between the two. (Revelation Space 12)

'I was consulting with him... With it.' (Revelation Space 12)

You could fall into the wrong hands unless you give me guidance (Revelation Space 16)

By your reckoning I'm just a program, just evocation (Revelation Space 16)

I don't hold you responsible. It would be like accusing a tyrant's photograph of war crimes (Revelation Space 16)

eighteen hours in consultation with various simulations of once-living figures from the ship's distant path (Revelation Space 18)

The scannings were all successful. The problem lay in the software which was supposed to execute the scanned information; to allow the alphas to evolve forward in time and experience awareness, emotion, memory — everything that makes us human. It worked well enough until the last of the Eighty had been scanned, a year after the first. But then strange pathologies began to emerge amongst the early volunteers. They crashed irrecoverably, or locked themselves in infinite loops (Revelation Space 57)

'Your people don't use simulations for this kind of work'? 'We used to,' Vasilov said, with a long-suffering sigh. 'But the trouble with simulations is that they put up with far too much shit.' (Revelation Space 86)

it was just a beta-level simulation constructed to mimic her personality, projecting an image of the Mademoiselle into Khouri's visual field and tickling her aural centre to allow her to hear what the ghost said (Revelation Space 123)

Stoners had been intensely suspicious of simulations in general, particularly those that purported to contain the essence or soul of an individual. One thing they especially disliked was the idea of one manifestation of an individual — biological or otherwise — making contracts to which the other manifestations were not bound, such as marriage (Revelation Space 178)

By some definitions ... it was already conscious; Calvin had already transmigrated. Calvin may or may not have believed that, but he still kept refining the sim. It could project an image which was so real, so like the actual man, that you had the forceful sense that you were really in his presence (Revelation Space 182)

They would require him to submit to Calvin; to allow Cal to invade his mind and take command of his motor functions. The thought alone was repulsive (Revelation Space 341)

I'm just a lowly beta-level. Capable of passing all the standard Turings, but not — from a philosophical standpoint — actually capable of consciousness. Hence, no soul. And therefore no ethical problems about there being more than one of me. ... I no longer believe any of that neuro-cognitive rubbish. ... I am now fully conscious. Perhaps all beta-levels are capable of this, or perhaps my sheer connectional complexity ensured that I exceeded some state of critical mass (Revelation Space 369)

they're meant to say this sort of thing. If they didn'tclaim to be conscious, they'd automatically fail the standard Turings. But that doesn't mean what he says — the noises he makes... the noises it makes — have any validity (Revelation Space 370)

Every act of copying me cheapens what I am. I am reduced to a mere commodity; something to be created, duplicated and disposed of whenever I happen to fit someone else's inadequate notion of usefulness (Revelation Space 370)

Ghosts on the ship get mean to Ilya in page 507 and 508.
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Melding Plague\|Melding Plague]]
whole sections of the ship were inaccessible, riddled with viruses which were causing widespread malfunction (Revelation Space 21)

it was strange to think that this twisted forest of malformed structures had once been the most prosperous city in human history (Revelation Space 40)

They say the Melding Plague corrupts our implants, blends them into the flesh, but I think it goes beyond that. I think it tries to hybridise (Revelation Space 412)

##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Captain\|Captain]]
The reefersleep unit which cased Brannigan was still functional ... it was striving to hold the cells of his body in stasis, even though the sell of the reefer had ruptured in great Palaeolithic cracks, fibrous metallic growth spilling out. The growth came from within the reefer, like a fungal invasion. Whatever remained of Brannigan remained at its heart. (Revelation Space 22)

Trying not to make it seem as if she had already explained this to him a dozen times, each time she had warmed his mind (Revelation Space 32)

The Captain's basso voice rumbled out of speakers arranged some distance from his corpse ... His brain was webbed by tiny machines, and in a way it was the machines which were thinking now (Revelation Space 32)

a cryogenically cooled corpse infected with a retarded but potentially all-consuming plague (Revelation Space 33)

They said that John Brannigan no longer needed a spacesuit when he left his ship; that he breathed vacuum, basked in intolerable heat and quenching cold, and that his sensory range encompassed every spectrum imaginable. They said that little remained of the brain with which he had been born; that his head was merely a dense loom of intermeshed cybernetics, a stew of tiny thinking machines and precious little organic material (Revelation Space 179)

As far as the rest of humanity was concerned, he was already a monster before the accident (Revelation Space 180)

Glittering and uncomfortably mucoid, he less resembled a human being than an angel which had dropped from the sky onto a hard, splattering surface. ... Captain Brannigan had sunk dozens of tendril-like roots into the ship now (Revelation Space 229)

'Are we healing a man or sterlilsing a machine?' ... 'We're fixing the Captain, and I'm afraid he's rather transcended both those categories' (Revelation Space 411)

I thought if one parasite was trying to gain control of the ship, the surest way to fight it was by unleashing an even more potent one. (Revelation Space 597)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Hermetics\|Hermetics]]
The hermetic glided into the apartment ... When the light was right she could just make out K. C. Ng's deathly pale face bobbing behind an inch of green glass (Revelation Space 26)

Hermetics were one of the most peculiar post-plague castes to emerge in the last few years. Reluctant to discard the implants which the plague might have corrupted, and convinced that traces of it still lingered ... they never left their boxes unless the environment itself was hermetically sealed (Revelation Space 27)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Robots\|Robots]]
A servitor skulked beside them awaiting orders (Revelation Space 3)

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Modified Animals\|Modified Animals]]
rogue janitor-rats (Revelation Space 22)

they were only fractionally more intelligent than their feral ancestors, but what made them useful — what turned them from pest into utility — was that they were biochemically linked into the ship's command matrix ... they foraged for waste, eating virtually anything organic which was not nailed down or still breathing ... some of them had even been equipped with voiceboxes and a small hardwired lexicon of useful phrases, triggered into vocalisation when external stimuli satisfied biochemically programmed conditions (Revelation Space 67)

Genetically engineered peacocks (Revelation Space 170)

they were now strikingly good facsimiles, even down to the bobbed crest and the speckle-shimmer of their turquoise plumage. They had been adapted from chickens by careful manipulation of homeobox genes (Revelation Space 176) 

They started as innocent living sculptures. He said any colony orbiting a star named Pavonis ought to have a few peacocks around the place. (Revelation Space 195)

unshackled from relentless machine control, the rodents would begin to revert to an archetype more chracteristic of their feral ancestors (Revelation Space 529)
#### About Aliens
'The bodies are gruesome, though, aren't they? Even though they're alien, it's almost as if you can feel their pain' (Revelation Space 3)
It was long enough for species to self-evolve, to fragment, to coalesce with other species or assimilate them, to remake themselves beyond recognition, or even to jump from organic to machine-life substrates. Some had even made the return trip, becoming machine, then returning to organic when it suited their purposes. Some had sublimed, vanishing from the theatre of the war entirely. Some had converted their essences to data and found immortal storage in carefully concealed computer matrices. Others had self-immolated (Revelation Space 255-256) 

The whole interestellar war drama is in pages 254-255. Fermi paradox in page 549, 550.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pattern Jugglers\|Pattern Jugglers]]
His enemies said that the things the Pattern Jugglers had done to his head ... were only now emerging into the light; pathologies that bordered on madness (Revelation Space 15)

The Pettern Jugglers have been around for a long time and they're to be found on many worlds. ... Whoever — or whatever — visits the Jugglers is remembered by them. Remembered absolutely, that is — down to the last cell; the last synaptic connection. That's what the Jugglers are. A vast biological archiving system. (Revelation Space 99)

Pattern Jugglers had tampered with his neocortex, embossing neural patterns which configured an unusual degree of spatial awareness (Revelation Space 164)

You killed Sajaki, all those years ago. ... You had the Jugglers do it; had them erase his neural patterns and overlay your own on his mind. You became him. (Revelation Space 521)

More Juggler lore in pages 100, 105, 106, 107, of how they work.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Amarantin\|Amarantin]]
The Amarantin were the eighth dead alien culture discovered by humanity (Revelation Space 29)

They made an agreement with the god they called Birdmaker, trading the ability to fly for the gift of sentience. (Revelation Space 154)

Noting remotely human; no sense that this third presence in the gunnery was anything so mundane as another downloaded personality simulation; what Sun Stealer felt like was pure mentality (Revelation Space 247)

once Sun Stealer might have been Amarantin. But he had changed, perhaps deliberately, through the selective pressure of genetic engineering, sculpting himself and his banished brethren into a new species entirely. They had reshaped their anatomy for flight in zero-gravity; grown immense wings (Revelation Space 508)

Description of Amarantin skeletons in page 4. Amarantin-to-Shrouder turning in page 582 and 583.  
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Shrouders\|Shrouders]]
The thing Lascaille had become (Revelation Space 92)

Nothing remained of his personality, except for a few residual traces which served only to heighten the almost absolute obliteration of everything else. Enough brain function remained for him to keep himself alive without machine assistance, and his motor control seemed completely unimpaired. But there was no intelligence left (Revelation Space 97)

Perhaps the salivating, mumbling reality of his existence was a touch too uncomfortable (Revelation Space 98)

The message that was imparted into him was so brutally alien that Sylveste could not begin to put it into human terms (Revelation Space 113)

The shrouders were as alien in form as anything in human experience — carapacial, multi-limbed things brewed from nightmares. The Amarantin, by contrast, with their avian ancestry and four-limbed, bipedal body plan, were less shatteringly alien (Revelation Space 453) 

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Inhibitors\|Inhibitors]]
A hybrid machine-chimeric species, with some residual vertebrate traits (Revelation Space 256)

Intelligent, organic life had given rise to the Dawn War. What they were now was something different; post-intelligent, I guess. (Revelation Space 551)

Lore, lore, lore in page 552, 555