---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/10-machine-vendetta/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
Sometimes there's nothing to be done but harvest anything useful from the ruined slush of their brains. Valery's implants used to belong to someone else, didn't they? (Machine Vendetta 88)
#### About Biological Manipulation
they were not babies at all, but rather adult-age humans who had undergone forced developmental regression to an infant body-template, surrendering most of their higher mental faculties along the way (Machine Vendetta 5)

She looked down, shocked and surprised to be granted an unfamiliar sensation this far into her life. She understood soon enough. It was a thing called agony (Machine Vendetta 16)

They were furry, generally about half her size, and they all had humanoid faces, albeit with faintly canine features and exuberant black and white patterning around the eyes, nose and snout (Machine Vendetta 49)

tracking the forced genetic changes that had been applied from generation to generation, culminating in the range of arboreal forms now evident (Machine Vendetta 51)

You wouldn't be human, and we wouldn't be... humanoid, if we didn't empathise (Machine Vendetta 72)

human-posthuman relations (Machine Vendetta 80) -about lemurs
##### About Cloning
We may not look alike, but that's just camouflage. Mere skin and bones. I was created in your image, Aurora. When our parents sent you to be scanned and uploaded, there was a part of them that feared the outcome. Feared failure. Feared that they were putting family glory above the welfare of their beloved only daughter. Therefore I was created, so that if the worst happened to you, not everything would be lost (Machine Vendetta 361)

Now I get to speak. The _other_ Aurora. The one who hasn't been damaged. The one who still gets to breathe and feel, the one who still understands love and loyalty. The one who can still hurt. The one who can still die. (Machine Vendetta 362)

I know what I _can_ be. Something that's closed to you for all eternity: _alive_. (Machine Vendetta 363)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
Descriptions of Ultras in page 101
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
some rich, some poor, some home to relatively normal communities, others functioning as theatres of the absurd or grotesque (Machine Vendetta 9)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
one of their own — a hyperpig prefect named Mizler Cranach — had launched a murderous and unprovoked suicide attack on a habitat (Machine Vendetta 4)

your habitat was built on tainted capital: profits from the early genetic prototyping of pig-human chimeras (Machine Vendetta 52)

He joked about all baseline humans looking the same to him — mirroring the remark that was usually directed against hyperpigs — but the truth was that he was perfectly capable of recognising hundreds of individuals (Machine Vendetta 66)
#### About the Environment
When the founders seeded Valsko-Venev they used the best suppliers, buying in plants with a boosted tolerance for vacuum and radiation shock (Machine Vendetta 64)
#### About Necroeconomics
The shuffling figure — he thought she was a woman — had a hairless skull criss-crossed with crude sutures and a pale tracery of older scars. She had ears, for it would have been difficult to take orders without them. She had eyes, to do the work asked of her. She had a nose, to breathe with. Her mouth had been stitched shut. Her sleeve lifted from her wrist. It had been bandaged over, the plastic nub of a catheter protruding through sweat-soiled fabric (Machine Vendetta 30)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
I haven't travelled as far from my human origins as you imagine. I still remember what it's like to be one of you. Small, powerless, vulnerable. In my weaker moments I can even muster a tiny flicker of empathy for what you are, and what I once was (Machine Vendetta 20)

It was a predictive model of the original man, a library of algorithms trained to behave like him, based on a lifetime of self-directed surveillance (Machine Vendetta 44)

the shadow of a man already gone (Machine Vendetta 46)

'Isn't there a part of her that still feels an attachment to us?' 'You were a blastocyte once,' Dreyfus reminded her. 'Do you feel much kinship with blastocytes' (Machine Vendetta 286)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Artificial Intelligence\|Artificial Intelligence]]
This was no human corpse. Behind the missing mask of eyes, nose and mouth was a messy business of mechanisms. ... The man was a mannequin, all machine and no living matter. This was not a highly cyborgised person, but pure robot (Machine Vendetta 161)

living under the questionable sovereignty of a deranged artificial intelligence (Machine Vendetta 334)