---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/2-chasm-city/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
Many had little glass boxes around their necks, containing what looked like religious relics, but which were actually implants, extracted from their hosts and now carried as symbols of former wealth (Chasm City 212)

birthed from robot wombs (Chasm City 330)
#### About Biological Manipulation
Back then you could just about argue that you needed boosted muscles to carry around your weapons. The equipment had improved since then, but the soldiers on the street tonight had bodies that looked as if they had been sketched in by a cartoonist with an eye for absurd exaggeration (Chasm City 11)

There were whole habitats where people had had their higher brain functions disengaged, so that they could live like sheep under the care of machines. In others, they'd had their minds implanted into monkeys or dolphins: lost in intricate arboreal power struggles or sorrowful sonar fantasies (Chasm City 151)

Some of his kind were engineered in labs. Others were adapted from prisoners or volunteers. They had brain surgery and psycho-conditioning so that they could be used as weapons of war by any interested power. They were like robots, except they were constructed largely of flesh and blood and had a limited capacity to empathise with other people, where and when it suited their operational needs. (Chasm City 231)

Beautiful and very strange — and, in the right light, perhaps barely human at all. Her skin was either chalk-white or hard-edged black. The stripes covered her forehead and cheekbones (Chasm City 279)

I haven't always been female, for what it's worth, and I doubt that I'll stay this way for the rest of my life. I certainly won't always be known as Zebra. Who'd choose to be pinned down by one body, one identity? (Chasm City 332)

About the only people who didn't have a problem were the ones who'd inherited extreme-longevity genes from their parents, but they were never a majority (Chasm City 333)

Description of people who have mixed themselves with animals in page 247. Cahuella reveals his biting skills in page 625. 
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Indoctrinal Virus\|Indoctrinal Virus]]
They spread the message, not by word or mouth, or writing, but by indoctrinal virus. (Chasm City 15)

We picked up the virus in your blood, once we looked for it. The virus inserts itself into your DNA and generates the new neural structures (Chasm City 101)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Mixmasters\|Mixmasters]]
The Mixmasters, on the other hand, wanted to *bemoan* god (Chasm City 407)
They knew genetics intimately. It was how they had arrived in Yellowstone in the first place, sending their fertilised eggs via frail robot envoys; machines which upon arriving, fabricated artificial wombs and brought those eggs to term (Chasm City 408)

Their work had been discreet: correcting genetic abnormalities in newborns; ironing out inherited defects in supposedly pure clan lines (Chasm City 408)

The Mixmasters were ideologically opposed to the whole idea of neural scanning, arguing that the soul could only be maintained biologically, not by capturing it in some machine (Chasm City 410)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Chimerics\|Chimerics]]
The Chimerics in general had taken cyborgisation to new extremes, blending themselves and their animals with machines (Chasm City 50)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
The Ultras were beginning to emerge as a separate human faction — not just flying ships, but living their entire lives aboard them, stretched out by the effects of time-dilation beyond anything that constituted a normal human lifespan (Chasm City 62)

To the Ultras our planet must have seemed like some kind of experiment in social engineering: a time-capsule imperfectly preserving technologies and ideologies which were three or four centuries out of date (Chasm City 115)

Description of Ultras in page 113.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
The Demarchists permitted everything, even experimentation in political models which chafed against their underlying paradigm of absolute non-hierarchical democracy (Chasm City 176)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
They're one of the less salubrious immigrant groups we've had to deal with since the fall of the Glitter Band (Chasm City 240)

The thing began to stand up on its legs as far as the low ceiling would allow. It was roughly human in build, but instead of fingers on each hand it had a set of five elongated trotters, both sets of which were gripping a vicious-looking crossbow. It was clothed in what looked like patches of leather and crudely fashioned metal, like mediaeval armour. Its flesh was pale and hairless and its face was somewhere between human and pig, with just enough attributes of each to make the composite deeply disturbing (Chasm City 276)

Just theories and myths. The one that sounded the most likely was that they were distant, abandoned descendants of a centuries-old programme in genetic engineering. Pigs' organs had once been used for human transplant surgery — there were more similarities than differences between the two species — and it seemed likely that the pigs had been an experiment to make the animal donors even more humanlike by blending human genes into their own DNA (Chasm City 354)

there were more than one species anyway, each having a different mix of human and pig genes, and there were groups of pigs which lacked the ability to form words, even though they had all the right neural mechanisms in place (Chasm City 354-355)
#### About Longevity Treatments
There are many people in Chasm City who used to be postmortal, but who now have to deal with the imminent prospect of death, the way some of us always have (Chasm City 192)

Reivich looked like a corpse: a cadaver briefly animated by the application of electrical puppetry. He did not look like anything living. He did not look like anything which had a right to speak, or to be able to curve his moth in the semblance of a smile (Chasm City 610)

Some info in page 31. Sky learns about human immortality in 232, 233 and 234. Jumping game and corresponding death in page 249.
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
This kind of transient memory loss is really much commoner than they would have us believe (Chasm City 58)

That was why the passengers were frozen, so that they could sleep out the whole thing while three generations of crew lived almost their entire lives tending them. Cocooned in their cryogenic sleeper berths, the passengers were nicknamed mummies by the crew, *momios* in the Castellano which was still used for casual conversation within the ship (Chasm City 83)

The adults cared deeply about the *momios*, like a religious sect entrusted with the care of fabulously rare and delicate icons (Chasm City 85)

Info about how Ultras cut corners with sleepers in pages 62-63. Sleepers aboard Sky's ship in page 81. Sky tampers with momios in page 559, 590
#### About the Environment
Sky's Edge's biosphere was superficially Earthlike — but down on the level of cell chemistry it was completely incompatible, containing almost no native flora which could be safely eaten (Chasm City 99)

They'd all been settled by robots four centuries ago: self-replicating machines carrying the templates necessary to construct living humans upon their arrival. (Chasm City 166) More info in [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/6.2. Glacial\|6.2. Glacial]]

Lore about Sky's Edge fauna in page 290 and controlling the snake things in page 293.
#### About Necroeconomics
Understand that any of us is expendable — and you'll be a long way to understanding what makes the Flotilla tick; ... Distance can breed suspicion, and it can make enemies hardly worthy of consideration as human beings (Chasm City 87)

For a moment they dithered, unsure who to treat first. A respected and high-ranking member of the crew was severely injured before them; two other crew members had wounds that might also be life-threatening. But there was also an injured passenger, a member of that even higher élite they had spent their entire lives serving (Chasm City 147)

Immortal people, they all bored. So they play games. Trouble is, not everyone get asked they wanna take part (Chasm City 223)
#### About Warfare
We didn't export much, except the experience of war itself (Chasm City 21)

Time and time again, my trading associates have offered your planet access to the longevity techniques commonplace on other worlds, but on each occasion the offer has been declined in favour of sordid military goods (Chasm City 118)

Compared to the plague, war seems very alien. Our enemy was our city, our own bodies (Chasm City 332)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
His parents had abdicated responsibility to an illusion (Chasm City 75)

I don't think of her as a copy of me anymore. She's more like an older and wiser sister who knows everything which has ever happened to me — as if she's been looking over my shoulder my whole life (Chasm City 393)

The simple fact is that if you want to get your soul into the machine — and not just some blurred impression — you have to die in the process (Chasm City 611-612) 

People scared of death because they haven't been scanned in a while in page 37.
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Melding Plague\|Melding Plague]]
Most of the machines were microscopic devices inside human beings, already intimately linked to mind and flesh (Chasm City 165)

Not alive, but not exactly dead either. More like fossils, but with the fossil structure so intricate that you can almost map neurons. I'm not the only one with them, and no one really wants to cut them away in case someone thinks of a way to get them back the way they were. So we live with them. No one used to want to share a room with them, once, but now I hear it's quite the chic thing to have a few of them in your apartment. (Chasm City 285)

A society in which the ideologies of cybernetics were, momentarily, a kind of heresy (Chasm City 409)

Lore about the Melding Plague written as a governmental pamphlet in pages 3 and 4. A man affected by the plague in page 433. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Hermetics\|Hermetics]]
I heard about them, those palanquins. The people inside them are called hermetics. They're the ines who've still got implants and don't want to get rid of them. (Chasm City 181)

A huddle of palanquins, grouped together like a collection of coffins in an undertaker's backroom (Chasm City 201)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Modified Animals\|Modified Animals]]
bizarrely enhanced pets (Chasm City 187)

luggage scooting ahead of them or being handled by monkeys (Chasm City 188)

they use genetically engineered cetaceans to fly these things, I think. Whales or porpoises, wired permanently into the behemoth's nervous system (Chasm City 189)

exotic pets on leashes; genetically enhanced servants (Chasm City 203)

Some kind of hairy primate provided the motive power for most of the rickshaws, a human gene splice resetting the necessary homeoboxes so that his legs grew longer and straighter than the simian norm (Chasm City 214)

The primate began to pedal, grunting in what was probably profound indignation at the outcome to which his genetic heritage had been shaped (Chasm City 215)

The bio-engineering of animals, I later learned, had been one of the few boom industries since the plague, exploiting a niche that had opened up once machines of any great sophistication began to fail (Chasm City 215)

The rats had reached the city aboard Ultra ships — genetically engineered to serve aboard ships as cleaning systems. But a few had escaped centuries ago, shrugging off their gloss of servitude, reverting to feral type. (Chasm City 501)

Info about the intention to build a Reptile Zoo in page 111. Ancient koi lore in page 415. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Dolphins on the Ship\|Dolphins on the Ship]]
These aren't the same dolphins the ship had when it left Mercury. These are the grandchildren, or great-grandchildren — I'm not sure which. They've never known anything except this tank, and nor have their parents (Chasm City 44)

Sky had seen photos of dolphins in the nursery, and there was something not quite right about this creature: a network of surgically fine lines encased its skull, and there were geometric bumps and ridges around its eyes; evidence of hard metal and ceramic things buried just below the dolphin's flesh (Chasm City 44)

Perhaps to serve as aquatic infantry, in some planned invasion of Earth's oceans. Or perhaps they were simply an experiment which was never completed, interrupted by the war's decline. Whatever the case, a family of dolphins was captured from the Chimerics by agents of the *Confederacion Sudamericana.* (Chasm City 51)

I wondered how much of his earlier life he remembered, confined in a tank that was oceanically vast compared to the one where he had been for the last fifty years (Chasm City 592)

Sleek tortures people in page 260 and 371.
#### About Aliens
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Grubs\|Grubs]]
First grub interaction in page 520, big maggot in page 523. 

There was a time when there were just grubs, even though there had been many voids. We looked for other types of grub but didn't find any (Chasm City 526)

It rested in a metal enclosure, a steep-sided bath that was knee-deep in brackish dark fluid, like squid ink. He was chained in place, and all around him loomed scaffolding and catwalks. Obscure, industrial-looking machines waited on gantries to be moved over the maggot. Electrical cables and fluid lines plunged into him at various points along his length (Chasm City 534-535)

You milk it, don't you? ... Milk it for Dream Fuel. And more than that. You use its terror and loneliness. You distil those impressions and sell them (Chasm City 539)

Travelling Fearlessly had ingested as many of Lago's memories as he could make sense of. He had learned how to make the same kinds of sounds as Lago, and how to impart meaning to those sounds, and — copying Lago — he had made a mouth for himself. Other grubs had copied Lago's sensory organs, or even incorporated bits of him into themselves (Chasm City 544)

It still cherished his company even after he had inflicted pain on it; even after he had murdered part of it. The thing was so desperately lonely that it even desired the presence of its torturer (Chasm City 547)

Description of the grub experientials in pages 173-174. More grub bad juju in page 541 (coat stuff). 
#### Other
Linguistic information on page 156. Lore, lore about the man in the wheelchair in page 528. 