---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/3-redemption-ark/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
The silvery loom of her implant web, topologically identical with her native synaptic network, shimmered with neural traffic, packets of information racing from neuron to neuron (Redemption Ark 1)

The machine's body was a flanged black egg from which sprouted numerous limbs, manipulators and weapons. There was no room for the pilot in there, just enough space for the machinery needed to keep the proxy in contact with the pilot. The pilot was still inside one of the three cutters, stripped of nonessential organs and jammed into a life-support cannister (Redemption Ark 21)

She thought of the pilot, surgically inserted into a steel canister ... little more than a central nervous system and a few tedious add-ons (Redemption Ark 161) 

It would have taken too long to heal my entire body, and Delmar's equipment was too bulky to bring along. I suggested that he remove my head, which was perfectly intact (Redemption Ark 233)

The pilot of a cutter never leaves his spacecraft for his entire term of service, which can be many years. To reduce mass, most of his body is surgically detached and held in cold storage back at the Convention headquarters. He doesn't need limbs when he can drive a proxy via a neural interface. He doesn't need a lot of other things, either. They are all removed, labelled and stored (390)
For all that she despised what he had done, she could not deny that she was adjusting to her new state of body in a way that might have alarmed her weeks earlier. Her armour was becoming her. She admired her form in the gleam of bulkheads and portals (Redemption Ark 413)

The brutal conjunction of flesh and machinery screamed wrongness (Redemption Ark 503)

Without the medichines I'd be dead now. Do they horrify me? Yes. Utterly, to the absolute core of my being. I am racked with revulsion at the thought of them crawling inside my skull like so many spiders and snakes. At the same time, I accept the necessity of them. (Redemption Ark 559)

The disconnected body of Skade in page 234. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
The Zombies had infected her with a propaganda dream, and although she had taken the usual recommended regimen of flushing agents, she could never clear it out completely (Redemption Ark 28)

Their expertise with what some of them still quaintly termed 'nanotechnology' had enabled them to reshape their environments and bodies almost at will (Redemption Ark 350)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
At first glance it might have been taken for an adolescent human, for the proportions and size were roughly analogous. A naked human at that — unclothes pink human-looking flesh folded away into the hole. ... a hyperpig: a genetic chimera of pig and human (Redemption Ark 54)

The intention had been to optimise the ease with which organs could be transplanted between the two species, enabling pigs to grow body parts that could be harvested later for human utilisation (Redemption Ark 55)

he had met enough to know that they were as morally complex as the humans they had been engineered to serve (Redemption Ark 68)

Run Seven had been one of the earliest hyperpigs, and his mind had been riddled with the psychotic scars of flawed neurogenetic augmentation (Redemption Ark 68)

At last he realised that he had a name, or could at least *give* himself a name (Redemption Ark 287)

their minds were wired differently from his, lacking the brain functions that coded and decoded language (Redemption Ark 289)

with the twelve pigs serving as indentured slaves, crammed belowdecks (Redemption Ark 289)

I'm afraid humans just aren't my favourite species (Redemption Ark 384)

Scorpio's past starting on page 287.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
The silvery loom of her implant web, topologically identical with her native synaptic network, shimmered with neural traffic, packets of information racing from neuron to neuron (Redemption Ark 1)

Spoken language was horridly slow and linear after centuries of neural linkage, even if the syntax and grammar were familiar (Redemption Ark 13)

Skade had a crest — a stiff, narrow structure that began to emerge from her brow an inch above her nose, before curving back along the midline of her scalp. (Redemption Ark 14)

Some of us have hit the limitations of the basic human bodyplan. The implants in our heads enable us to think ten or fifteen times faster than normal, all the time, but at the cost of increased thermal dissipation requirements (Redemption Ark 15)

they've never trusted us, and we've always regarded them as reactionary Luddites, unwilling to face the next phase of human Transcendence (Redemption Ark 15) about Demarchists

a soldier in the Coalition of Neural Purity. The Coalition opposed her mind-augmenting experiments and saw the utter annihilation of the Conjoiners as the only tolerable outcome (Redemption Ark 16)

he had seen prisoners scream and thrash as they were led to the recruitment theatres, where their heads would be pumped full of Conjoiner neural machinery (Redemption Ark 57)

She invaded the brains of her subjects, including herself, with tiny machines that laid down connections between brain cells which exactly paralleled those already in place, but which were capable of transmitting nerve signals much more rapidly (Redemption Ark 107)

They had not so far embarked on mass neural conversion programmes, but their critics said it would only be a matter of time before the populaces were subjugated by Conjoiner implants, enslaved into their crushingly uniform hivemind (Redemption Ark 165)

Lack of ambition is for baseline humans (Redemption Ark 245)

agents who had been psychologically primed to tolerate isolation from their fellows (Redemption Ark 269)

I'm a Conjoiner. My nervous system is not fully human (382)
I'd been wounded, but I definetely didn't want any stinking machines in my skull. I'd have rather died than that. But someone put them in there anyway. And now I'm grateful. (Redemption Ark 557)

Early on, we made love often. The other Conjoiners didn't like it, I think — they saw it as an animal act, a primitive throwback to baseline humanity (Redemption Ark 602)

Conjoiner education of children in page 71, explaining how they live in a world changed by the implants. What Conjoiner elders look like in page 88. Exordium stuff in page 108. Clavain gets sad about humanity in page 618, talking about how it's worth preserving. 
###### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Felka\|Felka]]
The product of an aborted experiment in foetal brain manipulation, she had been a tiny damaged child, not merely unable to recognise faces, but unable to interact with other people at all (Redemption Ark 76)

Through her mind was damaged to the point where she could not relate to people at all, she had an astonishing ability for complex tasks (Redemption Ark 76)

Subtle and delicate neural manipulation gave her back some of the brain functions that had been destroyed in the foetal intervention: language, and a growing sense that other people were more than mere automata (Redemption Ark 77)

You made me into something other than what I was. You made me into a person (Redemption Ark 112)

You and Galiana worked so hard to make her fully human... and yet I can see that work crumbling away by the day (Redemption Ark 446)

she wasn't a thinking human being in any sense that he recognised it, just a mindless information-processing vegetable (Redemption Ark 451)
#### About the Environment
Resurgam-tolerant grass (Redemption Ark 83)

Communities like Solnhofen made a precarious living from servicing and crewing the terraforming rigs, but the work was hard and unforgiving, and required — demanded — a certain breed of worker (Redemption Ark 94)

the original scientific agenda replaced by a conflicting policy of terraforming and widescale settlement (Redemption Ark 131)

Earth way back in the twenty-second century, in one of the last perfect summers before the glaciers rolled in and the place became a pristine snowball (Redemption Ark 157)

surface flora matched the patters expected from terran genestock, modified for cold, dry, low-oxygen survivability (Redemption Ark 539)
#### About Necroeconomics
Perhaps some had even died before now, and had been dumped from the ship so that the mass of their bodies could be traded against fuel savings (Redemption Ark 52)

'What about the rest of humanity? What are those poor fools meant to do when the wolves arrive? Take their own chances?' 'It's a Darwinian universe.' (Redemption Ark 182)
#### About Warfare
in wartime there was almost no crime that didn't carry the death penalty (Redemption Ark 475)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
irreversible neural death (Redemption Ark 231) - about the death sentence

the authorities ... have the right to impound and erase any beta- or alpha- level copies of someone sentenced to permanent death. It says that no matter how many backups of yourself you make, no matter whether they're simulacra or genuine neural scans, the authorities get to round them up and wipe them out (Redemption Ark 471)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Artificial Intelligence\|Artificial Intelligence]]
You once accepted machines that were almost as intelligent as yourself (Redemption Ark 170)

Pity that you let that machine become intelligent while forcing it to remain your slave. I didn't think that was quite what we believed in (Redemption Ark 170)

we know that any intelligent entity must choose its own destiny. Yet that servitor doesn't have any free will, does it? Just intelligence. The one without the other is a travesty (Redemption Ark 170)
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Captain\|Captain]]
There's really very little point in distinguishing between him and the ship nowadays (Redemption Ark 141)

the thing that in another life had called itself John Armstrong Brannigan (Redemption Ark 183)

there was no physical trace of the Captain's own body now, but his intelligence, distended, confused, spectral, undoubtedly still inhabited the ship (Redemption Ark 185)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Modified Animals\|Modified Animals]]
one of the whale-brained tankers circling endlessly through the atmosphere, singing sad, mournful songs of turbulence and hydrocarbon chemistry (Redemption Ark 38)

The shop steward, who was not a monkey at all but an enhanced orang-utan, had pulled all of Xavier's squirrel monkeys out of the workshop ... the orang-utan had ordered the workers to down tools in sympathy with a party of striking colobus monkeys halfway around the rim (Redemption Ark 112)

lemurs who were working at below-union rates and thereby taking work away from higher primates (Redemption Ark 112)

If he did not like working with monkeys, or apes, or prosimians, or even the occasional group of pygmy sloths, he should not have chosen to set up business in Carousel New Copenhagen (Redemption Ark 112)

Too many damned animals. When you work with monkeys all day ... being served by machines begins to seem like a bloody good idea (Redemption Ark 154)

there were such powerful unions and political lobbies nehind most of the hyperprimate species. The Ferrisville Convention would find it a lot harder to explain the death of a gorilla or orang-utan than a human (Redemption Ark 161)

he had realised that the cat really was talking, that the animal was a rich tourist's bioengineered affectation. ... he was reasonably certain that the cat was not a legally recognised sentient entity (Redemption Ark 273)
#### About Aliens
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Grubs\|Grubs]]
the creature had ingerited more than just the means to make language from the man he had eaten. He had absorbed his memories and personality, fusing them with his own (Redemption Ark 362)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Inhibitors\|Inhibitors]]
the cubes had been learning how to invade skulls until then, but that with Galiana they had finally found out how to do it without hurting the host (Redemption Ark 11)

Their minds were mazes of instinct and hungry intelligence, utterly unencumbered by sympathy or emotion. They howled across the silent steppes of the galaxy to each other, summoning themselves in great numbers when the bloody stench of life again troubled their wintry sleep (Redemption Ark 96)

It was probable that they had once been organic, spined, warm-blooded land-dwellers with bicameral minds. ... For a long time they had clung to the organic. But at some point their machine selves had become dominant, sloughing their old forms (Redemption Ark 268)

they've come here to wipe us out, like pest-control specialists (Redemption Ark 313)

*Mammals. It felt a distant echo of kinship, something that had never troubled it when it was extinguishing ammonia-breathing gasbags or spiny insectoids* (Redemption Ark 408)

Farsi paradox stuff in page 536.