---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/4-absolution-gap/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Humanity — whatever *that* means (Absolution Gap 285)
#### About Cybernetic Implants
plug-in limbs (Absolution Gap 126)

It was even more shocking to think that they had allowed the machinery controlling that filtering to creep into their skulls, where it could make the trickery even more seamless (Absolution Gap 374)
#### About Biological Manipulation
The physician would be keeping a careful eye on the machines while they did their work; left alone, their creaking circuits had a nasty habit of absent-mindedly switching into autopsy mode (Absolution Gap 154)

Deprived of sleep by drugs and elective neurological intervention, they were half-mad to begin with (Absolution Gap 187)

sleep could be banished with drugs and neurosurgery, coupled with a little dialysis to mop up fatigue poisons. He had taken care of the blinking as well. (Absolution Gap 228) 

he was thinking of installing neural blockades in Quaiche's skull, little valves and dams that could be opened and closed remotely. Isolate the right brain regions — make them light up or dim, depending on function — and it might even be possible to turn the skill on and off (Absolution Gap 326)

the genes she had inherited had been modified many hundreds of years earlier, weeding out many of the commoner causes of death (Absolution Gap 469)

Captain's recollections of his war-time friends in page 417 (two headed soldier). 
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Indoctrinal Virus\|Indoctrinal Virus]]
a crude mishmash: a half-baked concoction of three thousand years' worth of religious imagery jumbled together without any overarching theistic consistency. It doesn't make him believe anything coherent; it just makes him *feel* religious (Absolution Gap 24)

Once you had Quaicheist blood in your veins you couldn't be sure of anything ever again (Absolution Gap 43)

Could this really be the action of an artificially engineered virus on his brain? It had always felt like that before, a series of crude mechanically induced responses, but now the emotions felt like an integral part of him, leaving no room for anything else (Absolution Gap 137)

the Office of Bloodwork, that clerical body which promulgated the literal blood of Quaiche (Absolution Gap 160)

half-crucified, lashed to an iron raft, forced to stare into the face of the world they considered miraculous (Absolution Gap 195)

Quaiche's own faith was subject to horrible lapses. He had developed immunity to the pure strain of the virus, the one that had infected him before his time aboard the *Gnostic Ascension*. One of the principle tasks of Bloodwork was to isolate the new mutant strains that were still able to have an effect on Quaiche. (Absolution Gap 232)

each was a distinct human being — or had been, at least, until their compulsion to gaze at Haldora had scoured the last stubborn trace of personality from their minds (Absolution Gap 330)

his faith would be irreversibly consolidated by chemical means. And as an Observer he would be surgically and neurologically adapted to enable him to witness Haldora for every instance of his existence (Absolution Gap 368)

Lore about virus strands (DEUS-X) in page 165. More bloodwork lore in page 232.
##### About Cloning
humming machines and half-formed people (Absolution Gap 13)

Although most of the bodies in the factory had never been decanted, this specimen — an adult female — had been warmed and used once before. The evidence of the injuries inflicted on it was fading under the regenerative procedures (Absolution Gap 14)

To the untrained eye the body looked normal enough, but it lacked the unmarred symmetry that Jasmina craved (Absolution Gap 15)

Although all the bodies were cultured from Jasmina's own genetic material, Grelier was able to intervene at an early stage of development and force the body down various sexual pathways. Usually it was boys and girls. Now and then, for a treat, he made weird neuters and intersex variants. They were all sterile, but that was only because it would have been a waste of time to equip them with functioning reproductive systems (Absolution Gap 21)

he understood then that the thing beyond the glass was the real queen, and that the ruined body in the seat was only a puppet that she currently inhabited. They were all true, then, all the rumours he had ever heard: the queen's solipsism; her addiction to extreme pain as a reality-anchoring device; the vast reserve of cloned bodies she was said to keep for just that purpose (Absolution Gap 30)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
The one thing guaranteed to get an Ultra ostracised was having any kind of interpersonal relationship with a baseline human (Absolution Gap 26)

She's an Ultra. You can't read her, can't second-guess her. To her, you're just furniture. You serve a need, but you'll always be replaceable. But look at me — I'm a baseline human like yourself, an outcast from mainstream society (Absolution Gap 224)

he had no orifices at all. Perhaps he had been redesigned to tolerate hard vacuum without the protection of a space helmet (Absolution Gap 451)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
It was said that human and pig minds were not so very different (Absolution Gap 9)

Some pigs would have been stimulated by the presence of a naked human woman, just as there were some humans who were attracted to pigs. But although the points of physiological difference between a female pig and a female human were hardly extreme, it was precisely those differences that mattered to Scorpio (Absolution Gap 144)

You don't even have the intelligence of a baseline human. You're just a pig (Absolution Gap 283)

humans made him what he is: a genetic dead end (Absolution Gap 341)

he felt self-conscious, wishing he was larger, more human, less like a pig and more like a man (Absolution Gap 456)

he had never heard of a pig living longer than seventy-five years, and the oldest pig he had ever met had been seventy-one years old. That pig had died one year later, as a constellation of time-bomb illnesses had ripped him apart over a period of a few months (Absolution Gap 469)

pig cardiovascular systems had been engineered by commercial interests for maximum ease of transgenic transplantation. The same interests hadn't been overly concerned about the longevity of their products. Planned obsolescence, they called it (Absolution Gap 577)

Scorpio thinks about the bad things of being a pig in page 421. Scorpio talks about the types of illnesses he can get in page 495. Talking about colours in page 498.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
she has no emotional ties to old-line humanity whatsoever (Absolution Gap 65 )

The foetus, still only in its sixth month of development, had been reintroduced into another womb. A biocybernetic support construct of living tissue, the womb had then been installed in the new body Skade had grown for herself (Absolution Gap 201)

Remontoire adjusted his state of mind so that he felt no fear, no apprehension about his own death (Absolution Gap 306)

It would have been trivial for him to edit his own mind into a state of serene acceptance. By going through the motions of grief he had paud a great, humbling tribute to Clavain. Even if it had only taken ten or twelve seconds (Absolution Gap 447)

they said nothing to each other and were uncomfortable when forced to talk to the non-Conjoined. They stuttered and made elementary errors of pronunciation, grammar and syntax (Absolution Gap 486)

if the wolves lost, Scorpio thought, but the only people left to celebrate were these silent Conjoiners, would it have been worth it? (Absolution Gap 486)

Aura lore in page 199 (lmao, baby with implants). More lore, upon birth, in page 435. 
#### About Longevity Treatments
I'm a thing of horror, in many respects, bound to this chair, barely able to survive without it (Absolution Gap 277)
Quaiche's description in page 222. Quaiche's fucked-up eyes in page 231. 
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
the many jacks and lines that plunged into his bruised baseline flesh (Absolution Gap 25)
#### About the Environment
by unpleasant I'm not talking about genetically engineered viral weapons. I mean something as commonplace as influenza. Our antiviral programmes are already stretched to breaking point (Absolution Gap 117)

In an era in which practically anything with a blueprint could be manufactured at negligible cost, handmade artefacts with watertight provenance were amongst the few 'valuable' things left (Absolution Gap 127)

Different. Wilder. Colder. Savage. Unforgiving. Cruel. Pristine. Bleak. Beautiful. Like a lover with a temper. (Absolution Gap 268) About Mars. 

He had only ever seen pictures of trees, but the pictures had failed utterly to convey the enormous dizzying complexity of the things. (Absolution Gap 449)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Greenfly\|Greenfly]]
No one knows where they came from, or who made them. The best guess is that they are a rogue terraforming technology: something developed almost a thousand years earlier (Absolution Gap 692)
#### About Necroeconomics
'I came all this way for that child' 'You came all this way for an asset' (Absolution Gap 282)

Incubators were amongst the most valued technological artefacts on Ararat, and great care was taken to keep them running (Absolution Gap 363)

Use of the vegetables by Grelier (EW) in page 230.
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Captain\|Captain]]
There was no escaping the fact that much of what he saw stemmed in some arcane sense from the Captain's biological body (Absolution Gap 171)

it was his flesh and blood (Absolution Gap 613)

it was a reminder that he was alive, that he had begun his thinking existence as a creature of flesh and blood. As long as he felt pain, he could still think of himself as distantly human (Absolution Gap 653)

the lack of pain where they had passed — the lack of any sensation whatsoever — was the worst thing of all. They were reclaiming the dead machinery of the ship from the temporary grasp of his living infection. It had been a nice dream, what he had become. Now it was coming to an end. (Absolution Gap 670)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Modified Animals\|Modified Animals]]
A genetic toy, isn't it? Let me guess: one part stick insect, one part chameleon, one part something mammalian? (Absolution Gap 161)
#### About Aliens

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pattern Jugglers\|Pattern Jugglers]]
She wonders how much the sea knows. It must have sensed the evacuation: felt the departure of so many human minds (Absolution Gap 3)

Swimmers had to keep an eye on those markings. They indicated that the sea was taking a liking to them, invading them, breaking down the barriers between vastly different organisms (Absolution Gap 335)

They were alien. *It*, the Juggler biomass, was alien. It would not succumb to human analysis, to neatly circumscribed cause and effect. It was as quixotic and unpredictable as a drunkard (Absolution Gap 382)

Shapes and patterns in the sea described in page 317. Swimmer recounts her losses in page 336. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Inhibitors\|Inhibitors]]
The black machines had infiltrated her skull, squeezing into the interstices of her brain. Horribly, she was still alive, but utterly incapable of independent action. She had become the parasite's living puppet (Absolution Gap 24)

there was still no agreement as to whether or not the aliens were intelligent in their own right (Absolution Gap 34)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Scuttlers\|Scuttlers]]
The scuttlers interchanged body parts with each others. That was why no two scuttlers were ever alike. They made themselves dissimilar (Absolution Gap 147)

scuttlers that had deviated far from the average body plan were socially successful creatures, for they must have participated in many exchanges (Absolution Gap 148)

It didn't matter that they were small and unglamorous: they were still very old, and still very alien. And they were tainted by the tragedy of extinction (Absolution Gap 151)

the Nestbuilders. It was they who had annihilated the scuttlers, when the scuttlers had made the mistake of negotiating with shadows (Absolution Gap 692)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Shadows\|Shadows]]
Some Shadows lore in page 311.
