---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/5-1-diamond-dogs/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
Trintignant's desire to find the ultimate fusion of flesh and machine had become obsessive; even — some said — perverse. (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 13)

a scandal involving experimentation on unconsenting subjects (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 13)

A new hand could have been cultured and regrafted in a few hours. If that did not appeal to you, I could have programmed your stump to regenerate a hand of its own accord; a perfectly simple matter of stem-cell manipulation. But what would have been the point? You would be very likely to lose it as soon as we suffer our next punishment. Now you will only be losing machinery — a far less traumatic prospect (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 57)

would I have welcomed the machines so willingly before they had invaded my head, or were they partly influencing my decision? (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 61)

But there was no blood gushing from the wound; no evidence of severed muscle and bone. I saw only damaged mechanisms (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 70)

Our eyes had been removed, the sockets scrubbed and packed with far more efficient sensory devices, wired back into our visual cortices. Our eyeballs waited back at the shuttle, floating in jars like grotesque delicacies (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 86)
#### About Biological Manipulation
He had lost the devil's horns since our last meeting — they had only ever been a bio-engineered affectation (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 3)

For a moment there was a shocking absence inside my head, the neural equivalent of a sudden, unexpected amputation (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 9)

'you'd had me deleted from your long-term memory.' 'I had you suppressed, not deleted.' (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 14) 
##### About Cloning
There's a bunch of interesting passages about the cloning plot twist in pages 95, 97, 98, 99.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
Ultras often wore a lock of braided hair for every crossing they had made across interstellar space and survived all the myriad misfortunes which might befall a ship. But that braid also symbolised every occasion on which they had been woken from the dead, at the end of the journey (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 19)
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
I get myself frozen between assignments (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 13)

by use of such a casket, one might prolong the four hundred-odd years of a normal human lifespan by many centuries, though reefersleep was not without its risks (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 18)

I had become a tool shaped so efficiently for one purpose that it could serve no other (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 91)

the faint ghost of an emotion Trintignant had not completely excised (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 95)

my brain struggling with vocabulary now that so much of it had been reassigned to the task of cracking the Spire (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 100)

despite the layers of humanity that had been stripped from me, I could still taste terror (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 102)

whole again. human again (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 103)

there were those who saw us and imagined that the creature with her — the thing that trotted by her like a stiff, diamond-skinned, grotesque mechanical dog — was merely a strange choice of pet (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 109)

Trintignant does whatever he wants in page 92 and 93, description of Diamond Dogs
#### About the Environment
It was even possible that we had passed beyond the city's crater wall, so that above us lay only poisonous skies (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 9)
#### About Necroeconomics
since its duty was always to keep its wearer alive, no matter what the costs, it opted to sever the arm above the wound (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 54)

Even her skull had been cracked open and sucked dry, so that the Spire could winnow the few small precious pieces of metal she carried in her head (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Dogs 83)