---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/5-2-turquoise-days/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
Captain Moreau's a puppet. Literally. The body you saw was just being tele-operated by orbital disciples (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 187)
#### About Biological Manipulation
Sivaraska had just had his tapeworm swapped for a nice new one (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 116)

glowing with renewed vitality after his yearly worm change (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 124)
#### About Necroeconomics
Human evil doesn't give us an excuse to wipe out the ocean (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 187)

You've murdered a world (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 196)

The Jugglers would be gone, the information they'd encoded erased beyond recall. And Turquoise itself would begin to die at the same time, its oxygen atmosphere no longer maintained by the oceanic organisms (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 197)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pattern Jugglers\|Pattern Jugglers]]
these animate shapes were enticements, like the gaudy covers of books. The minds themselves were captured only as frozen traces. The only living intelligence within the ocean lay in its own curatorial system (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 134)

the ocean recognised the sanctity of organisms, or at least, thinking organisms. Strange things might happen to people who swam with the Jugglers, things that might be difficult to distinguish from death or near-death. But people always emerged afterwards, changed perhaps, but essentially whole (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 135)

her sense of self was rushing out towards the horizon in all directions (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 136)

they all want to *become* him; to accept his neural patterns on their own. They want the Jugglers to imprint Ormazd's personality on all his followers, to remake them in his own image (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 185)

she had exchanged experience with countless alien minds, drinking in entire histories beyond normal human comprehension. (Diamond Dogs, Turquoise Days. Days 192)