---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-1-great-wall-of-mars/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
it's not that we regard individual lives as worthless, any more than you would willingly sacrifice a limb. But now that we're part of something larger — (Galactic North. Great Walls 18)

whereas Demarchists used implants to facilitate real-time democracy, Conjoiners used them to share sensory data, memories — even conscious thought itself (Galactic North. Great Walls 18)

some had even chosen suicide rather than be denied Transenlightenment (Galactic North. Great Walls 19)

there's no family structure, of course, but then again there are plenty of human and primate societies where the family is less important in child development than the cohort group (Galactic North. Great Walls 21-22)
###### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Felka\|Felka]]
Felka developed with machines in her head. She was the last to be born before we realised our failure (Galactic North. Great Walls 23)

She has no interest in other human beings. She has prosopagnosia: the inability to distinguish faces. We all look alike to her (Galactic North. Great Walls 23)

You're placing too much humanity behind her eyes (Galactic North. Great Walls 39)
#### About the Environment
they were planning fabulous cities under the ice (Galactic North. Great Walls 5)

a means to avoid the millennia-long timescales needed to terraform Mars via such conventional schemes as cometary bombardment or ice-cap thawing. Instead of modifying the whole atmosphere at once, the Wall allowed the initial effort to be concentrated in a relatively small region (Galactic North. Great Walls 6)
#### About Necroeconomics
It's not genocide when they're just a faction, not an ethnically distinct race (Galactic North. Great Walls 1)