---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-3-a-spy-in-europa/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Biological Manipulation
modifying the human form for submarine operations (Galactic North. Europa 97)

some of the gilled are really only comfortable talking to their own kind (Galactic North. Europa 103)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Denizens\|Denizens]]
the changes required would be beyond surgery. You'd have to script them in at the developmental level. And even then... I'm not sure that what you'd end up with would necessarily be human any more (Galactic North. Europa 104)

She took the abomination that we were and made us something better. We were in pain, once. Always in pain. ... She brought our humanity to the fore, made it impossible for them to treat us as animals (Galactic North. Europa 111)

Horror-type description of Denizens in page 110.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
all citizens had an implant that constantly interrogated them, elliciting their opinions on every aspect of Demarchy life ... eventually, it was said, the implant's nagging presence faded from consciousness, until the act of democratic participation became near-involuntary (Galactic North. Europa 98)
#### About Necroeconomics
there was always a choice, between doing whatever Gilgamesh Isis asked of him and being deprogrammed, cyborgised and sent to work in the sulphur projects around the slopes of Ra Patera (Galactic North. Europa 99)