---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-4-weather/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
No machine can ever perform that task as well as a conscious mind. We could build a conscious machine, of course, a true mechanical slave, but that would contravene one of our deepest strictures. No machine may think, unless it does so voluntarily. So we are left with volunteer organic minds (Galactic North. Weather 162)

C-drives are brains: all information in pages 162-163.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
I doubted that pain was a strong enough word for the psychic shock associated with being ripped away from her fellows. Nothing in ordinary human experience could approximate the trauma of that separation (Galactic North. Weather 130)

Don't start humanising them. That's the mistake humans always make. Next thing you know, they've got their claws in your skull (Galactic North. Weather 134)

She never was a human being. She's been a Spider from the moment they made her, and she'll go to the grave like that (Galactic North. Weather 135)

You know we call you the retarded. There's a reason for that. The emotions I feel... the things that go on in my head... simply don't map onto anything you'd recognise as love, or affection, or even friendship (Galactic North. Weather 143)

we all carry the memories of those who went before us, before the family was torn asunder. (Galactic North. Weather 155)
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
always reminded us that our passengers were not frozen 'cargo' but human beings who had entrusted themselves into our care (Galactic North. Weather 119)