---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-5-dilation-sleep/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Biological Manipulation
My wife was a geneticist to the marrow. On Yellowstone, where cybernetics was the primary creed, it made her a virtual pariah (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 170)
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
Crewpersons thus rode at a more reduced level of reefersleep than our passengers: a little warmer, a little closer to the avalanche of cell death that is life. The computer could interrogate us without the bother of complete revival. (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 173)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
Katya — my actual Katya — despised the whole idea of you. This illusion would have especially sickened her (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 170)

There was no doubt in my mind that the other crewpersons had also arranged for their own fictitious companions. They too would speak to their loved ones, or some idealised fantasy of a lover, when they addressed the ship (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 171)

even this façade had been programmed to exhibit fear, programmed to plead once it guessed my intentions (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 182)
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Melding Plague\|Melding Plague]]
I thought of the less wealthy, those who could not even afford spaces in the cryocrypts. I thought of the long queues of people waiting to see surgeons, people like Katia, anxious to lose their implants before the disease reached them. They would pay with whatever they could: organs or prosthetics or memories (Galactic North. Dilation Sleep 176)