---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-6-grafenwalder-s-bestiary/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
What was once a human brain, yes. Before he — before *it* — started doing things to itself, throwing pieces of its humanity away like a child flinging toys from a sandpit. (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 204)

Full description of Trintignant's brain in page 205. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Denizens\|Denizens]]
Not all of them were created with the gift of language, Mister Grafenwalder. They were engineered to work as underwater slaves: to take orders rather than to issue them. They had to be intelligent, but they didn't need to answer back (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 200)

perhaps there is something in having one that won't answer back, or plead. It's going to be spending a lot of time in his tank, after all (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 201)

a representative of a sentient slave race (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 201)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ultras, Ultranauts\|Ultras, Ultranauts]]
Description of an Ultra in page 184. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
there is the hyperpig variant his contacts located for him in the bowels of Chasm City: one of a kind, apparently; a rare genetic deviation from the standard breed. The woman's right side is perfectly human, but her left side is all pig. Brain function lies somewhere between animal and human. She sometimes tries to talk to him, but the compromised layout of her jaw renders her attempts at speech as frenzied, unintelligible grunts (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 188)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Modified Animals\|Modified Animals]]
things study his passage with dim, resentful intelligence: just enough to know that he is their captor (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 187)

there are distressing calls; laughable attempts at vocalisation (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 188)

not all animals are animals, technically speaking. About half the exhibits in the bestiary are creatures like the hamadryad: alien organisms that evolved on the handful of known life-sustaining worlds beyond the First System. (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 188)

there are no servitors anywhere, only adapted animals like the silverback (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 190)

three days later, when they tell him that the hamadryad has died, all he can think about is the money he paid (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 211)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Dolphins on the Ship\|Dolphins on the Ship]]
there is the psychotic dolphin that lives in near-permanent darkness, its body showing evidence of crude cybernetic tampering. Its origin is unclear, its age even more so, but the animal's endless, all-consuming rage is beyond question (Galactic North. Grafenwalder's 188)