---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-7-nightingale/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
they'd been healed by machines, with only a vague awareness that there was a watchful human presence behind the walls (Galactic North. Nightingale 240)
#### About Biological Manipulation
the ship was also equipped to fabricate its own organ supplies, using well-established principles of stem-cell manipulation (Galactic North. Nightingale 257)

Skin chamber (in the organ library) filled with skin in page 263. Description of Colonel Jax (war monument) in page 287 and 288. The memorial addresses the reader in page 293. 
#### About Warfare
I saw the horrors of war for what they were. I also saw my part in the self-perpetuation of those horrors (Galactic North. Nightingale 283)

'You healed people.' 'Only so they could go back to war. Only so they could be blown apart and returned to me for more healing' (Galactic North. Nightingale 283)

I'm the war memorial. When *Nightingale* started doing this to me — making me what I am — she had in mind that I'd become a vast artistic statement in flesh. *Nightingale* would reveal me to the world when she was finished. The horror of what I am would shame the world into peace. I'd be the living, breathing equivalent of Picasso's *Guernica*. I'm an illustration in flesh of what war does to human beings (Galactic North. Nightingale 289)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
the ship had its own gamma-level personality, keeping the whole show running. Pretty smart piece of thinkware by all accounts: full Turing compliance; about as clever as you can make a machine before you have to start giving it human rights (Galactic North. Nightingale 250)

they tend to go nuts. That's why the Conjoiners won't allow gamma-level intelligences in any of their machines. They say it's a kind of slavery (Galactic North. Nightingale 250)

it wasn't clever to leave a gamma-level intelligence up and running without something to occupy itself. Because otherwise — since duty was so deeply hardwired into their logic pathways — they tended to go slowly, quietly, irrevocably insane (Galactic North. Nightingale 266)

for the first time I had the impression of an actual mind lurking behind the machine-generated mask. I sensed that it was a mind capable of compassion and complexity of thought (Galactic North. Nightingale 281)

they built this ship and put the mind of an angel inside it. A mind dedicated to healing, compassion, kindness. So what if it was a damned machine? (Galactic North. Nightingale 288)