---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/6-8-galactic-north/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
A loyalty shunt. Makes simian stem cells; pumps them into the internal carotid artery, just above the *cavernous sinus*. They jump the blood-brain barrier and build a whole bunch of transient structures tied to primate dominance hierarchies; alpha-male shit. (Galactic North 304)

To scan you, just like we did with the two frozen heads. Copy you into the ship (Galactic North 311)
##### About Cloning
She'd been cloned from Mother Irravel. ... They even shared memories: scripted into Irravel's mind by medicines, so that she barely noticed each addition to her own experiences (Galactic North 312)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
Seven had a man's bulk and a man's shape, but there was at least as much of the pig in his face. His nose was a snout, his ears two tapered flaps framing a hairless pink skull. (Galactic North 300)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
they had fragmented into a dozen factions and vanished from human affairs (Galactic North 318)
#### About the Environment
We need all the genetic diversity we can get if we're going to establish a new branch of humanity outside the galaxy (Galactic North 330)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Greenfly\|Greenfly]]
Greenfly machines were von Neumann breeders, unlike the sterile servitors. They were a hundred times cleverer. (Galactic North 296)

If only there'd been time to activate and program the greenfly machines. They'd have ripped through the pirates like a host of furies, treating them like terraformable matter... (Galactic North 297)

an evolved greenfly — one of the self-replicating breeders (Galactic North 316)

Every century, the green wave was larger, as neighbouring solar systems were infected and transformed by the rogue terraforming machines (Galactic North 320)

Do you think anyone survived? Are there niches in the wave where humans can live? That was the point of greenfly, after all: to create living space (Galactic North 324)

The Nestbuilders are stressed out about Greenfly in page 315. How Greenfly veils suns in page 321.
#### About Necroeconomics
the shared knowledge that they would kill each other rather than place the cargo in harm's way (Galactic North 295)

Neural conditioning. I regard the cargo as my offspring — all twenty thousand of them. I can't betray them in any way (Galactic North 300)

Most of the sleepers were still there. They'd been butchered, carved open for implants, minds pulped by destructive memory-trawling devices (Galactic North 301)

In what way do our loyalty shunts differ from the psychosurgery your world inflicted on you, Irravel, yoking your motherhood instinct to twenty thousand sleepers you don't even know by name? (Galactic North 310) 

Seven uses frozen heads as armour in page 309.
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
the ship's governing personality raised me as well as it could, attempted to make of me a well-rounded individual... (300)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pattern Jugglers\|Pattern Jugglers]]
A Pattern Juggler world described and explained in page 318.