---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/7-the-prefect/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
There were baseline humans and people very far from human. There were sleek, purposeful shapes that might not have been human at all (The Prefect 2)

for the first time in his life, his implants would no longer be in constant communication with the informational matrix beyond House Perigal. It must have felt like the drop of a guillotine (The Prefect 7)

Eight hundred thousand people have just lost abstraction for the first time in their lives (The Prefect 165)
#### About Biological Manipulation
the muscular fluked tail that had been grafted on in place of her legs (The Prefect 3)

she was blown apart by a malfunctioning whiphound. They'd put her back together again, but her nervous system had never been the same (The Prefect 14)

he'd neglected to take his scheduled Pangolin shot. Security dyslexia was kicking in as his last clearance boost faded (The Prefect 27)

their faces, for the most pat, were still recognisably human, albeit furred, scaled or otherwise distorted according to some zoological model (The Prefect 120)

the people  in the wilder habitats might employ Mixmasters to sculpt themselves into exotic forms, but they seldom did anything to the functional architecture of their minds. (The Prefect 174)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
If someone wants to experiment with a different social model, they're welcome to do so. All they have to do is recruit enough willing collaborators to set up a new state (The Prefect 226)

Explanation about voluntary tyrannies in page 131. Absolute egalitarianism explained in page 136. Explanation about the weighing of votes in page 148. Some flavour text/lore about the different types of states in page 257. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
I'm a pig, Thalia. There are prefects who won't look me in the eye because of that. (The Prefect 33)

the only hyperpig to have made it past Deputy II in twenty years (The Prefect 80)

Sparver found himself cursing the inadequacy of his hands. It was not because there was anything wrong with them from a hyperpig's point of view, but because he had to live in a world made for dextrous baseline humans (The Prefect 153)

Racism against pigs in page 271. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
It is a significant thing for a Conjoiner to trust a baseline human being. People like you did terrible things to people like me, once. Many of them would do the same things again if the chance arose. (The Prefect 214)

They're people, Lillian. They might be people who make us uncomfortable, people with very different values from ours, but when we're facing local extinction at the hands of a genocidal machine intelligence, I don't think the differences between us look massively significant, do you? (The Prefect 422)
#### About the Environment
They were brought here in the bellies of robots, as fertilised eggs. The robots gave birth to them, and raised them to be happy, well-adjusted human beings. What they got was happy, well-adjusted psychopaths ... Children don't grow up right without other normal people around, so that they can imprint on reasonable social behaviour (The Prefect 452)
#### About Necroeconomics
If anyone obstructs you, or refuses to cooperate, you have clearance to euthanise (The Prefect 5)

He was a bust, Thalia thought: a human head, half of the upper torso, and *nothing* else. Nothing below the ribs. No arms, no shoulders. Just a head and a chest, the base of his torso vanishing into a ring-shaped life-support device. ... Funds have to be used in the most efficient manner possible. There are more than a million people living in Sea-Tac. If every single one of them had the mass-energy demands of an adult human, we'd be spending so much money keeping them all fed and watered that we wouldn't have a penny left over for bandwidth (The Prefect 92)

once a month, one of the habitat's extremely wealthy citizens was selected at random. That unfortunate individual would be tortured, their excruciation prolonged via medical intervention until they eventually succumbed to death. Money flowed into Hell-Five's coffers via the sale of viewing rights and the fact that the citizens of other habitats could sponsor a particular mode of torture, often after a series of escalating auctions (The Prefect 109)

Once Dreyfus had become accustomed to the fact of the sleepers, and the mechanisms that sustained them, he realised that many were incomplete. Some were missing hands and arms, others lower legs or the whole limb (The Prefect 159)

Their minds have been enslaved for Aurora's purposes (The Prefect 187)

The dead people would be processed, stripped down, reutilised. Even if their meat bodies yielded nothing of value, there were useful metals, semiconductors, superconductors and organic compounds inside their skulls, courtesy of their Demarchist implants (The Prefect 297)

why are we risking the lives of living citizens to save a bunch of self-induced coma-cases? (The Prefect 372)

authorisation to commit mass euthanisation if it means saving other lives (The Prefect 373-374)

I shall begin humane euthanisation of one in ten of the citizens already under my care (The Prefect 386)

they've been rounded up, euthanised and shipped off to the manufactory to be stripped down and scavenged for useful elements (The Prefect 390)

Aurora had indeed wanted those people dead: not because she hated them, not because they were capable of derailing her plans, but because they were of no conceivable use to her (The Prefect 419)

She wants complete control of the Glitter Band. Humans won't be allowed to live in it anymore. It'll just be one vast support infrastructure for an immortal mind. (The Prefect 455)

Conjoiner woman admits to cannibalism in page 160. They argue about the future of voluntary comatose citizens in page 403. Dreyfus is an ableist bitch in page 495. 
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
My personal belief is that beta-levels have no claim on consciousness. As far as I'm concerned, you're just an item of forensic evidence. The fact that I can talk to you — the fact that you might claim to feel alive — is entirely irrelevant (The Prefect 41)

I do have a problem with software entities that pretend to be alive and then expect to be accorded the rights and privileges of the living (The Prefect 41)

I was raised by a family that regarded beta-level simulation as a perfectly natural state of existence. My mother died in Chasm City, years before I was born from a cloned copy of her womb. I only knew her from her beta-level, but she's been as real to me as any person I've ever known (The Prefect 50)

empathising with software (The Prefect 85)

she refused to accept that a beta-level simulation could be anything other than a walking, talking shell. It might look and sound like her, it might mimic her responses to a high degree of accuracy, but it wouldn't be her on the inside. It wouldn't have an interior life. (The Prefect 103)

They'd hoped to form a community of minds, an immortal elite above the rest of corporeal humanity (The Prefect 234)

what he had in mind was not simply a new form of immortality, to improve upon what was already available via drugs and surgery and medichines. Calvin sought the creation of an entirely new and superior stratum of existence. The Eighty wouldn't just be invulnerable and ageless. They'd be faster, cleverer, almost limitless in their potentiality (The Prefect 234-235)

'You've been a disembodied intelligence for a lot longer than you were a little girl. Call me judgemental, but my instincts tell me your sympathies are far more likely to lie with machines than with flesh-and-blood mortals' 'Would you stop caring for the citizens if they were slower and weaker, stupider and frailer than yourself?' (The Prefect 385)

Beta-level considers Dreyfus' understanding of beta-levels a form of -ism in page 41. Interesting dialogue. More Delphine-Dreyfus fight in page 85. Explanation of Calvin and the 80s in page 126. Lascaille is explained to have died being scanned in page 466 (making the Clockworker not AI). More information about this in page 484. 
##### About [[The Clockworker\|The Clockworker]]
You were a machine with alien components. And you were angry. You were worse than angry. You were a machine that knew its soul had been stolen from an innocent man, a man who'd already been driven half-mad by the things he'd seen inside the Shroud. (The Prefect 485)

It's a perversion of whatever Phillip Lascaille was. They took the mind of a man who'd been driven insane by the Shrouders and then fed the mind of that man — terrified even more because he knew he was going to die — into a machine for making contact. What they got back was an angel of vengeance, forged in a strange and alien place (The Prefect 491)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Artificial Intelligence\|Artificial Intelligence]]
Valery became interested in art created by machine intelligences. Her mission was to prove that it was as valid as purely human art; that there wasn't some essential creative spark that required the input of a flesh-and-blood mind (The Prefect 99)

she wasn't so much interested in what beta-level simulations could produce as she was in art created by intelligences that had no human antecedents (The Prefect 99)

they wanted to create gamma-levels that were not only capable of passing the standard Turing tests, but which had the potential for intuitive thinking (The Prefect 100)

someone had created an artificial mind unlike anything that had gone before. Not just a brain in a bottle, but an autonomous robotic entity (The Prefect 100)