---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/8-elysium-fire/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Cybernetic Implants
For reasons presently unknown, something went wrong with your neural machinery. Your implants sent out debilitating signals, putting you into a grand mal seizure. Then they underwent a catastrophic thermal overload (Elysium Fire 27)

no implants. I'd almost forgotten how backward you people like to keep yourselves (Elysium Fire 231)
#### About Biological Manipulation
a shaven-headed neutrois citizen dressed in a yellow gown, with the same belt and burgundy armband as their colleague (Elysium Fire 60)

Valery had lost language. She had lost not only the ability to read, but also the mechanisms of verbal expression and understanding. Speech to her was a meaningless, upsetting babble. For years the patient Mendicants of Hospice Idlewild had been trying to rebuild the neural pathways of linguistic function (Elysium Fire 105)

Brain modification — something more complex or delicate than the norm. The elimination of rare diseases, or the augmentation of brain faculties outside the usual scope of orthodox medical services (Elysium Fire 170)

where the lion had been was now their mother, slumped on her side, strangely still, the bolt embedded in her chest, a spreading blood pool already forming a dark, forbidding cordon around her body (Elysium Fire 313)

the boys had already been put through at least one round of forced amnesia treatment when I entered the household service (Elysium Fire 320)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Demarchists\|Demarchists]]
The only binding law was the iron rule of universal suffrage. Flawless, incorruptible machinery ensured each citizen had their say, not just from year to year, but from day to day, hour to hour. Citizens were polled on every conceivable matter. The process of participation became as habitual as breathing. (Elysium Fire 2)

Rule by the people, for the people, with neural implants to facilitate rapid polling and decision-making (Elysium Fire 121)

A steadily rising lifespan, a society free from poverty and sickness, and absent of all but the most rare and ingenious forms of crime... why should we not consider that a shining success, Prefect Dreyfus? (Elysium Fire 237)

The insincerity of Demarchism in page 185. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
She studied his face, lingering over the strangeness in it, but also the humanity (Elysium Fire 265)

they say that pigs lack the capacity for truly creative thought, but I'm sure you'll give the lie to that (Elysium Fire 378)
#### About the Environment
They had come here in vast starships, crossing the gulf of light years from Earth. Down in the permanent ochre murk of Yellowstone's toxic atmosphere they had founded chasm city, the greatest urban settlement in human history (Elysium Fire 1)

an echo-collapse took hold and they didn't have the capital reserves to fix the problems. The habitat was declared bankrupt, then sold off to asset-strippers (Elysium Fire 52)

In each instance the robots created a batch of children — newborns. But there wasn't anyone around to raise those children except the robots themselves. The trouble is the robots didn't get it right, and the children ended up all wrong. If there was a second generation, it was even worse. Something hadn't developed properly. Empathy, social awareness, call it what you will. They were little sociopaths. Little monsters. (Elysium Fire 215)

They came out of metal wombs on an alien planet, with only robots to stand in for their parents (Elysium Fire 216)

Some of the robots were done up to look like people, and that didn't work too well. Close but not quite right — and even a child can pick up on all the ways that it's wrong. The Ursas were another approach. Forget trying to pass them off as people, go the other way instead. Big, furry teddy bears. Mentors and friends. But they didn't work out any better than the humans, in the end (Elysium Fire 340)
#### About Necroeconomics
They'll have led you to believe that the cost of our survival — the disarming of that threat — was the surgical destruction of forty-one habitats and the loss of more than two million human lives (Elysium Fire 12)

It wasn't about killing or saving him. It was about evidential preservation (Elysium Fire 18)

they were painlessly euthanised at the end of each run, and a new batch prepared (Elysium Fire 375)

What statute covers the raising of successive generations of children in an illegal experiment in retrospective social engineering, with each batch of children being doomed to euthanisation when they've served their purpose? (Elysium Fire 397)

Using the children to bet on, explanation in page 375.
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Alpha-Beta Simulations\|Alpha-Beta Simulations]]
He chided himself, because even to think of her having selfhood, let alone an interior existence, was a fallacy he had sworn he would never allow himself to fall into again (Elysium Fire 136)

I thought all you hard-nosed prefects were supposed to treat us as bundles of evidence, with no more soul than a box of photographs (Elysium Fire 149)

Just when I'm in danger of thinking there might be a trace of humanity in there, you go and remind me of what you really are. A cold-blooded monster, interested in one thing only (Elysium Fire 398)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Artificial Intelligence\|Artificial Intelligence]]
Two compromised experiments in the extension or prolongation of human intelligence — two victims of hubris and over-reaching ambition (Elysium Fire 140)