---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/6-reynolds/9-inhibitor-phase/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About Biological Manipulation
a human being, fragile and easily broken (Inhibitor Phase 40)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pigs, Hyperpigs\|Pigs, Hyperpigs]]
the Swine Queen got a good look at me before. Knows what I am: the oldest pig alive. That makes me valuable to her. Pig meat's rare, and I'm the rarest kind of all (Inhibitor Phase 161-162)

keeps pigs. lots of pigs. chained up, yes and yes. fed and fed. Then she cuts them up, a bit a time. And feeds them to the swineherds, yes and verily (Inhibitor Phase 162)

once you've tasted pig, you don't go back (Inhibitor Phase 163)

You see Pinky and all you see is a pig, ... Maybe you think you see more than that. Maybe you tell yourself you're not like all those other men and women who see something less than human. _Other_ than human, yes. But not _less than_. (Inhibitor Phase 169-170)

a man with pig genes in him. But still a man. (Inhibitor Phase 170)

his kind cannot see the longer game. Waiting is inimical to them. They are creatures of impulse, driven by the need for immediate gratification (Inhibitor Phase 181)

pig's faces, made into masks (Inhibitor Phase 192)

they did not have to be human to be people (Inhibitor Phase 237)

they say there are things in here that aren't so well developed: little circuits that help with reflection, strategic planning, delayed gratification, that kind of thing (Inhibitor Phase 345)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Conjoiners\|Conjoiners]]
humans and their allies (including hive-mind 'Conjoiners' and genetically-engineered 'hyperpigs') (Inhibitor Phase vii)

nothing in the universe can hurt me, unless I choose to allow it. Kill me, yes, but not hurt me. (Inhibitor Phase 105)

I was conceived within the influence of the Hades matrix and carried to term in the artificial womb of a half-sane Conjoiner whose name means "damage" in a tongue now long forgotten (Inhibitor Phase 144)

Better to think of her as an engineered instrument, a millitary tool (Inhibitor Phase 147)

a nearly invulnerable shell wrapped around something that's still a lot warmer and more human than she's ready to admit — a human core that still makes mistakes and still cares (Inhibitor Phase 220)

the minds who spent centuries perfecting reefersleep technology weren't really thinking about hyperpigs (Inhibitor Phase 253)
#### About Longevity Treatments
stripping away the years (Inhibitor Phase 111)
#### About Cryogenic Sleep
every trip involving a period of torpor carried a risk of death or permanent disability (Inhibitor Phase 4)

I was a sack of body parts, a grisly mess held together by pain and stubbornness and the distant, nagging sense that I still had unfinished business (Inhibitor Phase 292)
#### About Necroeconomics
i meant to kill her and however many other thousands of people she travelled with. It doesn't matter if there were fifty thousand of them, and five thousand of us. It's not a moral calculus. They had to die, no matter how many of them were, no matter how virtuous they were, so that our survival wasn't put in jeopardy (Inhibitor Phase 24)

differing ideas for contingency planning — birth control, food rationing and so on (Inhibitor Phase 32)

The expense of keeping a person alive VS the value of knowledge in page (Inhibitor Phase 34)

I very much hope this little pocket of humanity makes it through the night. There aren't many others (Inhibitor Phase 60)

there are other pockets of life out there, other doughty little bands of survivors, huddled down against the night (Inhibitor Phase 69)

there was nothing distant or abstract about the way people were dying. Extinction isn't some bureaucratic erasure. It's screaming, suffocation, desperation and terror. It's pain and sorrow and the certain promise of more to come (Inhibitor Phase 123)
#### About Warfare
Neural weapons. Nanotechnic weapons. Things that would have made the melding plague look like an itch. We think they captured these poor souls, then let them loose in the core while laying bets on how long they'd last. (Inhibitor Phase 151)

the haemoclast was weaponised blood. (Inhibitor Phase 185)
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Captain\|Captain]]
The worst thing of all. She made me live again. (Inhibitor Phase 99)

They were dead, all of the bodies that were exposed to vacuum. But some were still moving. Their heads shifted at my approach. Their mouths were working, jaws opening and closing in time to the words of the chorus (Inhibitor Phase 99)

I _am_ the ship. But she lies. I wasn't damaged. I was dead. (Inhibitor Phase 101)

he pushed his tendrils into them, made their corpses dance like puppets (Inhibitor Phase 105)

the plague-ridden bowels of John the Revelator (Inhibitor Phase 106)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Pattern Jugglers\|Pattern Jugglers]]
surrendering yourself to the biomass, going naked into that alien sea (Inhibitor Phase 305)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Ararat Survivors\|Ararat Survivors]]
clearly they are derived from human genestock (Inhibitor Phase 334)

Description in page 340. More in 377.
##### About [[Warglass\|Warglass]]
I had been stripped down to the components of sentience by the Pattern Jugglers, dismantled and remade like a broken toy, and somewhere in that process all continuities of time had been severed (Inhibitor Phase 367)

That was me. That was also me. There's no easy answer to what I've become (Inhibitor Phase 370)

I both knew and did not know the limits of my own body (Inhibitor Phase 371)

I was no mere body on the catafalque; no mere empty receptacle, it was me. It was the last tangible thread connecting me to the life I had lived (Inhibitor Phase 385)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/6. Reynolds/Bodies/Inhibitors\|Inhibitors]]
they regard us as vermin, not individuals (Inhibitor Phase 54)

Nestbuilder lore in page 429-430. Even more in 431, 434, 437.