---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/secondary-bibliography/categorised/csicsery-ronay-the-seven-beauties-of-science-fiction/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Csicsery-Ronay Jr, Istvan. The Seven Beauties of Science Fiction. Middletown: Wesleyan UP, 2008.

About [[Terminology/Science Fiction Studies\|Science Fiction Studies]], [[Terminology/Space Opera\|Space Opera]], [[Terminology/Utopia\|Utopia]]

**PAGE NUMBERS**

134-171

SF’s *free science*. Science is sf’s pretext. Every quantum-info-nano-bio-cyber-astro-psycho-xeno-sociophysical infodump pumps up the illusion that sf stories are dramatizations of scientific knowledge. But even in the hardest of hard sf, sf’s science is always figurative. It is an image of science, a poetic illusion disguising its illusionary status. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 134

In high-tech capitalism, technoscience produces words and images that sell and legitimate commodities and power, sensation and desire. In the empire of technoscience every area of concern is examined scientifically, with a technological solution as a goal. But the concerns carry ancient baggage that science does not secure. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 135

Exaggeratedly rationalistic theories ignore sf’s fundamentally playful performance of scientific thinking. Even when it is written by professional scientists with established reputations, sf requires its science to violate scientific correctness, even plausibility Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 135

The genre has the not wholly undeserved reputation of being a propaganda arm of technocratic ideology. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 136

Such a cat-and-mouse aesthetic involves the logical-cognitive energies of world building— extrapolation, verification, and falsification—and speaks mainly to readers who are educated and intellectually confident enough to enjoy solving scientific puzzles. In other words, to insiders of technoscientific mythology. Readers match wits with writers in terms of two overlapping kinds of modeling: the fit of the imagined world to the known world described by science (scientific correspondence), and the fit of the details of the imagined world to its overarching design (sciencefictional coherence). The more traditional functions of literary narrative—to motivate collective and individual human actions within the world frames—are much less important to this kind of sf gaming than the rigor of setting Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 138

But because it is read as fiction, sf’s science is treated with provisional faith; and because it is expected to be speculative, readers anticipate that the science will at some point warp what is generally agreed to be the case. Where that point is will vary from text to text, on a spectrum from narratives in which the scientific base deviates only slightly from accepted contemporary views and experimentally verified theories, to those based on speculations remotely conceivable in terms of current knowledge but with no good evidence for them (the not impossible), and ultimately to fantastic ideas with the rhetorical appearance of scientific explanation, but that are actually playful jargon. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 139

sf artists design fictive, ludic mini-myths that build on the playful imitation of technoscientific imagining. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 139

Much of sf’s appeal is that it rationalizes highly romantic and fantastic stories by means of scientific ideas. But it is just as true that much of sf, maybe even most of it, has little or no “cognitive” value as Suvin uses the term. SF does not necessarily help readers to become more rational, or to transcend ideology by recognizing the true state of things. It is cognitive in another sense. It engages the worldview of scientific materialism and supplements it with quasi-mythic narrative to make models relevant to cultures on the ground. In the process, it transforms technoscience from the way of the world into an evidently inexhaustible font of rationalized, playful world-stories. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 140

Once scientific ideas cross the social blood/brain barrier between technical and popular consciousness, they are embedded in an enormous, living, fuzzy patchwork of beliefs, cognitive adaptations to momentous material changes brought on by the application of technoscience to daily life: Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 142

Space programs would not have been possible without the stitching of Copernican cosmology to narrative images of alien beings in undiscovered lands and visions of perfect spacefaring machines. The desires and anxieties crystallized in the playful myths of sf prepare the ground for real scientific projects Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 143

The prosthetic concepts of sf are, like most prostheses, prone to become fetishized in classically psychoanalytic fashion, taking on the energy and mana of the longed-for complete and satisfactory worldview, a utopian consummation that the real body of scientific concepts lacks—a fact continually marked by the generation of new fetish-supplements. In the artistic/conceptual economy of sf, these ideational, wish-fulfilling supplements are figured as literal prostheses, machines and technologies that exceed the given world, make the world exceed itself, and enable the human species-ego (or whatever alien/AI acts as its surrogate) to exceed its force, intelligence, and mortal limits Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 145

In sf as an art, it is precisely this irrelevant, theoretically eliminable circumstantial decor that stands out, and makes a theory into a story. It not only shows how the novum changes something like the actual world, but how the earnest rules of science can be manipulated by the play-rules of art and the freedom to combine and supplement granted by the cultural myth-engine Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 149

SF is the literature that takes thought-experiment as its given reality, which it then artistically and ludically exaggerates and estranges. In other words, it is not social reality that is estranged in sf, but the imaginary, pseudorational models that a technoscientific society produces about itself Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 151

The science of sf must violate known science if it is to be science-fictional Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 156

SF writers often describe the physics of spaceflight scrupulously, without once reflecting on the political economies of societies that have to fund the energy budgets of spacefleets. Some writers introduce scientific-sounding patches that facilitate the action, but stretch the plausibility of the science. Others combine credible speculative explanations with incredible ones Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 157

finally, plausible scientific concepts may not even be necessary when, as in sci-fi, science is merely a pretext for displaying cool stuff. The science in sf is suspended science, configured in an aesthetic space where reverie and thought-experiment meet and enjoy the cultural authority of science, as a projectile enjoys the gravity of the planet it uses to slingshot itself into space. This is not to say that the representation of science in sf lacks all cognitive content. Quite the contrary. However, it is not the imaginative play that serves the cognition, but the reverse Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 158

Partly as a pastime, but also as a form of respect for sf’s power to stimulate speculation, a growing number of scientific projects have been inspired by sf scenarios. Contemporary physics includes a niche for the theorization of what is sometimes disparagingly called “Star Trek science”: exercises in formulating explanations for futuristic/fictive technologies, such as warp drive, managed wormholes, teleportation, inertial dampers, time machines, and the like, which have become so commonplace in mass-media sf that they have taken on a hyperreal concreteness in the social imagination Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 160

Science-fictional ideas appear in an ever-greater number of popular expressions, with the effect that they not only convey technoscientific cultural values, but help to form social perceptions, especially of the young. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 161

That sf contributes to forming hacker identity should surprise no one. Hacker culture revels in the dissolution of the sf/science boundary. Software engineering has evolved outside the established institutions of scientific research, and is so new that it relies on the creativity mainly of young noncomformists. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 163

Nanotechnology is an exemplary case: nanotech—the nascent science of engineering at the molecular level—is entangled in a complex relationship with sf discourse. Although many of its theoretical contours are well established, and there have been rudimentary applications, nanotech is largely virtual, especially when its actual results are compared with the promises made to promote it Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 163

Political prudence requires that the technology be socially 41 vetted, that it be made familiar and desirable. The discourse of nanotech is consequently saturated with tropes that evoke heroic breakthroughs and the irresistible pull of technoutopian world resolutions on the future side of the novum Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 164

The actual application of technoscience in the present is debated in the future, mediated through a science-fictional future past. By framing inchoate technologies of the present in terms of vivid future outcomes, we run the risk of perceiving our reality as an inert resource, fallow in its own right, to be megafarmed and strip-mined by future novums. A vicious circle can develop, in which the discourse of widespread social-ecological transformations imagined in techno-utopian or dystopian scenarios “infect” the politics of science with memes in which an sf-inflected neological language of the virtual future returns to the present to extract its resources of assent Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 166

In its most obvious forms, we see this mediation in the manipulation of technological expectations by political actors who use future-oriented sf discourse to facilitate projects beneficial to their power. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 166

SF thrives on maximum credible rationalization. Technoscience’s hegemonic power is based on the widespread sense that it is the only remaining system of explanation that can command mass assent, a belief that makes science less a practice than a metaphysical atmosphere. Explanations are drawn from it for phenomena at the limits of conceptualization: the state and fate of the universe, the essence of life, the nature of consciousness, the composition of reality, the potentials of human civilizational self-construction Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 168

SF inhabits the niche of public discourse in which rationalizations float free of close observation. With professional discretion, sf writers slip over from the established, accepted (that is, no fun) principle of Occam’s razor, toward its perverse twin, the pataphysical impulse, to seek the most *complicated* solutions possible Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 168

250-300

>*No story of its own?* It is often said that sf has no distinctive myth or storytelling formula, that it thrives by adopting the plots of other genres, punching them up with its distinctively exotic futuristic settings. SF Westerns, detective, and crime stories abound, as do quests, farces, romps, picaresques, Kafkaesques, political parables, philosophical fables, fractured fairy tales, surrealist assemblages, rationalized fantasies, and even terror-and-pity–inducing tragedies. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 250

sf responds to distinctive interests that it articulates in its characteristic devices and frames of reference. If its stories are always concerned with global/species /collective transformations mediated by technology, we may reasonably expect that these concerns will exert morphogenetic pressure on storytelling itself. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 250

Most commentators agree with Northrop Frye that sf stories derive from, and adhere closely to, the mythos of romance: stories in which human heroes prove their powerful virtue through a series of trials, many of which take place in anomalous spaces where normal laws do not apply Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 250

’s many plot loans and parabolas are structured by two distinctive forms of a category we might call the technologiade, the epic of the struggle surrounding the transformation of the cosmos into a technological regime. These two dialectically related forms are the expansive space opera and the intensive *techno-Robinsonade*. Space opera employs many of the traditional devices that the adventure tale has retained since its earliest incarnations. It has also invented new ways of treating some of the basic categories of the adventure universe, such as *free time* and *free space* (free, that is, from social-historical determinations), because these categories are also directly subject to the manipulations of scientific speculation, allowing sf to transform romantic conditions into fictively material ones Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 251

Space opera is sometimes said to be the quintessential form of sf narrative, not always with flattering intent. The term was originally used for trashy, pulp sf, much as purists use the term “sci-fi” today to distinguish works intended purely for entertainment from the more dignified science fiction or sf. But the term has become a descriptive one (also like sci-fi), signifying spectacular romances set in vast, exotic outer spaces, where larger-than-life protagonists encounter a variety of alien species, planetary cultures, futuristic technologies (especially weapons, spaceships and space stations), and sublime physical phenomena Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 252

Outer space allows writers to construct the sorts of ontologically pluralized fictional universes characteristic of premodern romances, populated with planets governed by their own ethicophysical laws, yet invoking the legitimating rhetoric of materialist science. The sciencefictional cosmos also acts as a story space in which sf’s main motifs can unfold with few constraints Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 252

In this sense space opera contains all the Seven Beauties (including space-operatic narrative itself), as a stage on which they can be displayed and performed. The points on which the fictional universe conforms with currently accepted scientific theories about the cosmos (the pride of hard sf) are effects for which space opera provides the scene, a story structure that is not changed by the transfigurative possibilities provided by exotic agents in the story. Because this space is a given for space opera, it permits all of the Beauties to be displayed in their most heightened form. Alien and extrapolated languages do not need to be taught or explained; they are expected. Grand-scale inventions and discoveries that lead beyond the known universe are also expected as a matter of course (otherwise, astronomical space would serve no purpose), as are surprising novum-obstacles materializing from the folds of the Abyss. The furthest developments of historical evolution and dispersion are possible, while imaginary science, the sf sublime, and sf grotesque are given room to grow without terrestrial social constraints, limited only by contemporary ideas about what is possible in a material universe. Space opera also employs all of sf’s borrowed narrative strategies, as if metafictionally, to emphasize that in sf the ontology of fiction encloses the ontology of scientific materialism. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 253

Space opera depends on a variety of imaginative quasi-physical devices that break up one-way duration. Time machines, communicating wormholes, consciousness downloads, artificial intelligence and Artificial Life, parallel, branching, and pocket universes, timecontrolling drugs such a Dune’s melange, teleportation, ansibles, faster-than-light travel, spacetime jumps, and other similar novums allow vehicles and messages to cover astronomical distances with little decisive story time lost, each carrying its own plausible explanation. Even in more conservative forms that keep such marvelous macrotechnologies to a minimum, imaginary techniques allow protagonists to maintain personal identity over eons, via cryogenics, cloning, and longevity drugs Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 254

science provides space opera with what it needs most to sustain the adventure scene: a plausible universe of plural, simultaneous, reversible spacetime continua. Clearly, if our mundane world is only a tiny station in a gigantically diverse cosmos, our “novelistic” norms of social conduct and consciousness will seem provincial, at best. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 254

In space opera, the adventure settles neither into the empty time of an absolutely metaphysical universe, nor into spacetime absolutely mutable by exotic technologies. Writers of space opera combine the sublime qualities both of cosmic spacetime and of macro-technological power to transform conditions of physical existence to create story worlds that are not empty of historical logic, but *meta* with respect to them Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 255

space operas usually articulate cosmic space by establishing a familiar home base against which to contrast exotic worlds. This base is often Earth itself, but it may be a spaceship, a space station, or colony, where familiar, extrapolated values of the audience are represented, sometimes ironically and critically. Most of space opera’s actions occur either in the interest of, or in conflict with, this base Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 256

After World War II, spaceopera writers took up the theme of the deconstruction of the familiar home base, which ceases to be a secure point of contrast against which the exotic can be measured. This theme reflects the postwar recognition of fragmentation and diversity within national societies, and increasingly critical attitudes to peacetime home worlds still dominated by war economies. Out of this also evolved the trope of the freefloating spaceship, increasingly on its own, unmoored from projects serving Earth’s interests. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 258

Not all space operas emphasize the vastness of space. For some, the cosmic diversity of worlds for which space is the alibi is interesting less as something to be visited and contemplated, than as a pretext for cultural conflict. Many space operas focus on places where different species cultures meet and jockey for power. In such venues, travel and battle in diversity-enclosing space is less important, and the diversity itself is less autonomous, than the intrigues of political power associated with cosmic hegemony. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 259

Such emphatically political sf requires a compressed universe, where all autonomous spaces are ultimately viewed as unstable, temporary autonomous zones, destined to be annexed by or introduced to a larger, encompassing political entit Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 259

Just as alien bodies are imaginary recombinations of aspects of known bodies, capable of imaginative variations, so the body politics of such space operas of intrigue (Westfahl names them “Ruritanian space operas”) can be highly imaginative recombinations of known terrestrial social 9 systems. One of space opera’s favorite plots is war between worlds, which cleanly displaces national wars by extending them to race, but also allows inventive and ideologically complex wars within species Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 260

With war, biocultural differences ultimately give place to technological differences, and the void becomes a technological stage. This easy plot conflict is made interesting by the variety of biophysical agents, machines, and motives of the contending cultures, a variety that is ultimately reduced to a simple, common goal: hegemony (or “autonomy,” hegemony within one’s narrow sphere). 
>Space opera finds it hard to resist the trope of the world-system, with its dominant Alliances, Hegemonies, Ekumens, Foundations, Empires, Cultures, and Federations, and their unassimilable rebels, turning the cosmos into a scene of political conflict between competing interests endowed with distinct technologies representing their motives. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 260

I approach this design first through relationships among recurring narrative functions that are modern adventure tales’ main diegetic agents. I name these the Handy Man, the Fertile Corpse, the Willing Slave, the Shadow Mage, the Tool/Text, and the Wife at Home Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 261

The Handy Man is a figure, usually male, who possesses skill in the handling of tools. He is polymetis like Odysseus; unlike him, however his many ideas and plans are almost exclusively devoted to technical problem-solving Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 263

He is generally induced or forced out of a culturally comfortable, predictable home environment, to exotic and undeveloped regions. There he either solves a fundamental problem that permits him to function as an entrepreneurial culture hero for his original culture (a modern Jason or Theseus), or he establishes the bases for a cultural transformation on his own terms Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 263

The Fertile Corpse is the scene of the Handy Man’s performance. It is usually not represented in human form, but as a region with strongly displaced qualities of feminine reproduction. It is fertile, because the Handy Man’s manipulations induce it to yield bounty, ranging from sustaining food and natural resources to more intangible yields. It is a corpse because it is found to be insentient, the residue of a distributed life-force that has no consciousness Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 264

The femininity of the fertile corpse is generally underscored by metaphors that associate it with natural processes, indicating a supersensible link with female reproduction: fertility of the soil, childbirth, analogical topography mimicking female bodies, association with feminine allure, “virgin land.” Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 264

The Handy Man’s relation to this resource body is complex. To make the Fertile Corpse productive is the object of the Handy Man’s quest and mythic function. It is, one might say, the generalized form of the Grail appropriate for ages of scientific exploration and discovery. It has its historically concrete origins in the objects of colonial ideology. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 264

The Willing Slave is most familiar in the form of Crusoe’s Friday. This agent mediates for the Handy Man by extending the power he manifests in raw form over the Fertile Corpse to human beings that are barely distinct from surrounding nature in their level of civil and technical development Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 266

The Shadow Mage is the embodied antagonist of the Handy Man’s project. In this function, the obstructor manifests archetypal qualities in direct dialectical resistance to the Handy Man’s Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 267

The gender and racial position of the Shadow Mage is more ambiguous and free than those of the earlier functions. Given the archaic stratum of the Mage’s origin, the historical hegemony of the European Handy Man and his racial and gender domination is sometimes threatened not only by the counter-rationality of magic, but also by the supernatural authority of suppressed genders and races. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 268

The Wife at Home appears on the scene relatively little in this model. Her role is all the more important, however. The Wife at Home is what she appears to be, the flesh-and-blood woman who is married or betrothed to the Handy Man hero. She is left behind when the Handy Man embarks on his adventures. Alternatively, she may appear as a future wife, to be taken at the end of the particular adventure. In either case, she inhabits the margins of the tale and its geograph Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 272

She may be rich, and thus able to provide the capital most valued by the adventurer. She may be dignified and admirable, but beauty and allure are not ascribed to her. She is the guardian and manager of domestic stability for the Handy Man, who has neither the opportunity nor the inclination to enjoy it, and yet for whom this protected and unenjoyed intimate sphere appears to be mythically necessary. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 272

The Wife at Home is defined primarily by negation. She is fixed in place, and fixed in her subservience Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 272

Thus femaleness is split into the essential, mythological function of fertility/nature/inertia/unconsciousness/ “natural capital” on the one hand, and female social roles/domesticity/conventional social mediation/cultural capital, on the other. By splitting the two aspects of patriarchally conceived femaleness into two, they each can be disempowered by instrumentality, which is associated with male potency and dominance. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 272

With the Gothic, the dominant subject position changes and is charged with gender resistance: dominant male aggressors assail, assault, abduct, and bind generally female victims. These attacks invariably involve complex plots concocted by the machinating males, and forcible journeys into dark zones where female or feminized victims are terrorized by demonic technique. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 274

Utopias famously resist dramatic adventures; indeed, one of their jobs is to depict good commonwealths that resist historical mutability. There is very little room for the restless libertarian *polypragmatos* in them. Utopias, however, do not just happen; they are not founded by gods or elves. They are distinguished from idylls and fantastic locations in that they are by definition products of reason. They were constructed by rational labor; if they were not, they could not even pretend to be models Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 277

The Moon is the quintessential fertile corpse. Generally referred to with the feminine pronoun, it is absolutely sterile, and yet the site of infinite possibility Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 282

his template of the engineer-inventor hero dominated the fiction cultivated by Gernsback and Campbell, reaching its fullest expression in Heinlein, for whom handiness was the single most important quality needed for progress and democracy. Later, ironic currents like cyberpunk actually expanded this Heinleinian idealization into a vision of collective technical transformation, as in Bruce Sterling’s dueling Mechanics and Shapers, heirs of humanity who have transformed themselves into nearimmortals via prosthetics and genetic engineering, respectively. Advances in the technical 43 manipulation of basic materials in different sciences—the atomic nucleus, the germ plasm, neurons, silicon, the nanocosm—routinely fuel new versions of science-fictional engineering, both in the genre and in actuality. The position of the Handy Man as the ideological core of sf meant that even in critical sf it was this character function that was the first to be problematized Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 288

The ethos of handiness dominates the entire universe in sf. Most sf aliens are necessarily handy, since we encounter them where only technsocience brings both them and us. We usually confront their machines, weapons, and cities even before we recognize the aliens themselves. To reach space or the earth, they must have cosmic engineering skills Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 291

The science-fictional archetype of the Willing Slave is the robot, especially as Asimov conceived it, programmed with the ethical baffles of the Three Laws of Robotics. Along with their more humanized 50 counterparts, androids, robots were created explicitly in their Urtext, Čapek’s R.U.R. (1921), to be willing slaves of human beings Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 294

The function of the Wife at Home becomes strikingly muted in sf, for clear-cut reasons. There is not much home in sf. Most action occurs enclosed in second nature, which is by definition liable to be reformed in any conceivable shape. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 297

SF has historically demonstrated a powerful, indeed sentimental, attachment to the planet Earth as the embodiment of the home base, the cosmic home. Space opera in particular holds fast to the idea of Earth as a stable point of emotional, cognitive, and moral orientation, in the midst of cosmic adventures. The myriad versions of the Lost in Space motif, of the New Earth, of the desperate attempt to return to a forgotten but latent original home, are evidence of the power of this nostos theme, in which Ithaca has entirely absorbed Penelope. The sf Earth is a place of origins, kinship ties, and a sense of belonging to an intimate (if anything on a species-scale can be intimate), immanent natural-historical process. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 298

Although sf writers delight in removing Earth from its pedestal—imitating the move of the great intellectual revolutions in science, and mythologizing a favorite ideological gambit of evolutionary thinking—relatively few writers can leave it in its peripheral position. Galactic empire fictions, which should technically have no need for reference to the planet Earth, often cannot let it go Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 298

. Tools appear with sublime magnitude in powerful indecipherable artifacts of alien cultures (such as 2001’s monoliths), in hypertrophies of human technology (the Minds and ships of Iain Banks’s Culture), in “Big Dumb Objects” that defy human analysis (the universe-ship of Clarke’s Rendezvous with Rama), or indecipherable time machines (the Time Tombs of Dan Simmons’s Hyperion). The main line of development of this archetype in sf has been toward increasing fusion of code and hardware into beings that come to consciousness in the form of autopoetic cyborgs. These selftransforming synthetic creatures draw all the other archetypes toward themselves, as they too become self-aware. The agents of adventure become Borged, as it were, elevated in power and gnosis through technoscientific upgrades that detach them from natural mortality and egoism, and transform them into potent nodes of network-worlds. This motif of techno-transcendence began in the first half of the twentieth century as a grotesque vision of dehumanization, a vast array of hive minds and group minds based on nightmarish conceptions of socialism, such as Zamyatin’s One State in We Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 299

The Wife at Home, or rather the home world suspended in space, emerges transformed as the new, self-aware artificial earth and the motherly matrix beyond gender, toward which the posthuman Handy Man—Mechanist, Shaper, Robo, Vurt—ventures, passing through the dialectic of enlightenment into the Adventure of Instrumentality, casting off nature, gender, and origin, in quest to become its own end. Csicsery-Ronay, Seven Beauties 300