---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/secondary-bibliography/categorised/westfahl-space-opera-z/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Westfahl, Gary. ‘Space Opera’. _The Cambridge Companion to Science Fiction_, edited by Edward James and Farah Mendlesohn, 1st edn, Cambridge University Press, 2003, pp. 197–208. _DOI.org (Crossref)_, [https://doi.org/10.1017/CCOL0521816262.015](https://doi.org/10.1017/CCOL0521816262.015). 

About [[Terminology/Science Fiction Studies\|Science Fiction Studies]], [[Terminology/Space Opera\|Space Opera]]

**it continues to find appreciative readers, even while scorned by learned commentators. (Westfahl Space Opera 197**

**Still, although chastised for lacking merit and damaging the reputation of sf, space opera has endured, evolved and grown, so that sophisticated writers and scholars increasingly look to the form with bemused affection, or even genuine admiration (Westfahl Space Opera 197**

s**pace opera has garnered little critical attention; only a few scholars have attempted anything resembling a rigorous definition. (Westfahl Space Opera 197**

Wilson Tucker’s pioneering 1941 definition provides a useful framework for describing the subgenre: ‘In these hectic days of phrase-coining, we offer one. Westerns are called “horse operas”, the morning housewife tear-jerkers are called “soap operas”. For the hacky, grinding, stinking, outworn spaceship yarn, or world-saving for that matter, we offer “space opera”.’2 Tucker suggests that three characteristics define space opera. First, space opera involves a ‘space-ship’: like the nautical fiction from which it borrows terminology and tropes, space opera depicts journeys through uncharted realms in vessels bringing humans into contact with the mysterious stuff separating their safe harbours. Even narratives occurring on the surfaces of alien planets must have nearby spaceports, creating the possibilities of departures to or arrivals from other worlds. Stories on worlds without access to space travel, or stories featuring travel to other planets by mystical means, are better termed planetary romances.3 Second, space opera is a ‘yarn’ – an exciting adventure story (Westfahl Space Opera 197

**like westerns and domestic dramas, it often succumbs to formulaic plots and mediocrity. Almost any well-received space opera generates sequels; many spawn endless adventures involving the same characters in similar situations; (Westfahl Space Opera 198**

To remain at the forefront of science fiction, which esteems freshness and originality, space opera must continually reinvent itself. So, as one form of space opera falls out of favour and migrates to less prestigious venues – juveniles, films, television, comic books, cartoons, video games – another, improved form of space opera emerges for discriminating readers. (Westfahl Space Opera 198

Star Trek contributed something new to space opera – the subject matter and sensibility of the romance novel. It was not simply the recurring subplot involving Nurse Chapel’s unrequited love for Spock, nor the several episodes where male stars fell in love with attractive women; rather, it was the strong personal bond between Kirk, Spock and McCoy that transcended the bantering, locker-room camaraderie previously characteristic of space opera (though fan-produced ‘slash fiction’ went even further, projecting a homosexual relationship between Kirk and Spock). It is as if Smith’s original plan to combine masculine scientific adventures with Garby’s feminine romantic touches had finally been realized (Westfahl Space Opera 204

Star Trek projected enough of the ambience of a romance novel to warrant the label of romantic space opera, and this helped to make Star Trek the first form of space opera to attract a significant female audience, contributing to its astounding longevity in television, films, merchandise and numerous Star Trek novels – all qualifying as space operas – that absorbed or replaced the run-of-the-mill space operas of previous decades. And, as if eager to attract female Star Trek fans seeking new diversions, writers after 1980 increasingly made women the heroes of space adventures. Anxious to show they were just as tough as male counterparts, these women also betrayed their softer sides in a manner reminiscent of the romantic space opera of Star Trek (Westfahl Space Opera 204

**a new form of space opera is developing, it is represented by the texts occasionally termed postmodern space operas. One might provisionally characterize these works by listing some common, but not universal, features. Stories aspire to the epic scope of classic space opera but may be tempered by a hard-edged cynicism, deeper than the self-serving pragmatism of Ruritanian space opera, or even grave pessimism about humanity’s future. Instead of featuring only humans and humanoid aliens, authors embrace extreme variety in forms of intelligent life – humans, aliens, machines or combinations thereof – crafted by evolution, technology or bioengineering. Other heresies include a universe where humans are not dominant, means of transportation other than starships, a rich texture of literary and cultural allusions and an overtly serious intent juxtaposed with a lingering aura of escapist adventure. Whether such traits make these works ‘postmodern’ as scholars define the word is problematic – ‘postmodern’ may serve primarily as a fashionable synonym for ‘sophisticated’ – and another term to describe this embryonic form may emerge. Works associated with postmodern space opera suggest the variety of ideas and approaches being explored. In Bruce Sterling’s Schismatrix (1985) and Schismatrix Plus (1996), Mechanists seeking to transform humanity by technology struggle with Shapers who champion bio-engineering. Michael Swanwick’s Vacuum Flowers (1987) features rebellious spacefarers, able to create and implant new personalities in themselves, battling the hive-mind that controls Earth. Dan Simmons’s Hyperion series – Hyperion (1989), The Fall of Hyperion (1990), Endymion (1996) and The Rise of Endymion (1997) – envisions a galactic government united by miraculous teleportation that destroys this wonderful tool to rescue humans from insidious artificial intelligences. (Westfahl Space Opera 206**

>Novels such as these, rather than culminations of space opera’s glorious traditions, might be interpreted as harbingers of the sub-genre’s exhaustion. Some writers may feel that way, as indicated by the elegiac tone of not only Banks’s series but also the Hyperion novels and Appleseed. For all the creativity poured into postmodern space operas, they may resultingly exude the aura of exercises, brilliantly accomplished but lacking the fervent conviction regarding humanity’s manifest destiny in the cosmos that distinguished classic space opera. (Westfahl Space Opera 207

science fiction has linked itself to many sobering responsibilities – guiding scientists, preparing citizens for the future, analysing social problems and emulating literary masterpieces – and works that have visibly addressed such goals have received most of the attention, while seemingly frivolous space operas, committed only to presenting exciting adventures, have been overlooked. However, **though earlier writers seeking respect disliked the label of space opera, the outstanding writers of today willingly embrace it. Perhaps science fiction is coming full circle, tacitly acknowledging the true frivolity of its portentous agendas while freshly appreciating the importance and dignity of the ‘pure entertainment’ that space opera in all its forms provides (Westfahl Space Opera 207**

