---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/1-schismatrix-plus/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


Contains [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/2. Swarm\|2. Swarm]], [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/3. Spider Rose\|3. Spider Rose]], [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/4. Cicada Queen\|4. Cicada Queen]], [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/5. Sunken Gardens\|5. Sunken Gardens]] and [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/6. Twenty Evocations\|6. Twenty Evocations]]
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Mechanists\|Mechanists]]

*“patched together with advanced Mechanist hardware, their lives extended with imported prosthetic technology.” (Sterling 4*

"I suffer a little from video burn. I have trouble seeing anything not on scan lines." (Sterling 19

*“Her expression was very wrong. There were none of the tiny subliminal flickers of mouth and eyelid, the movements of the throat, that accompanied human thought processes. Her face was more than calm. It was inert.” (Sterling 33*

*“He hated the yarite's withered, waxlike, cy-borged body” (Sterling 39*

“Held together with wires and patchwork” : (Sterling 40

“Maybe technology eventually turns them into something you wouldn't call human” (Sterling 42

*“They'll be cybernetic, not living flesh. That's a dead end, because there's no will behind it. No imperatives. Only programming. No imagination.”  (Sterling 114*

“You can't stay sterile here; we depend on these little creatures. We don't have your internal alterations. We don't want them. You'll have to crawl like the rest of us.”  (Sterling 145

“the stolen Mech implants in his own brain, that opened internal channels to the thin data-whispers of the wireheads?” (Sterling 161
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Wireheads\|Wireheads]]

“"How long have you been a wirehead?" "Ten years or so. Time alters under the wires. You know, I can't remember offhand where I left my brain. Someplace unlikely, I'm sure."” (Sterling 146

“Data seem to bubble up from some deep layer of the mind. This is not exactly living, but it has advantages.” (Sterling 146

*“There are those among us whose brains broke down years ago: they totter along on investments and programmed routines. If the fleshies knew, they'd declare them legally dead. But we're not telling." He smiled. "Think of us as angels, Mr. Dze. Spirits on the wires. Sometimes it's easier that way."” (Sterling 147*

“That's a game for those who still have flesh. Those who can heal.” (Sterling 147
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Zen Serotonists\|Zen Serotonists]]

“Science tore the human race to bits. When anarchy hit, people struggled for community. The politicians chose enemies so that they could bind their followers with hate and terror. Community isn't enough when a thousand new ways of life beckon from every circuit and test tube” (Sterling 151

“What we need is nonmovement, calmness, clarity." She stretched out her left arm. "This monitor drip-feeds into my arm. Fear means nothing to me. With this, there's nothing I can't face and analyze. With Zen Serotonin you see life in the light of reason” (Sterling 151
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Lobsters\|Lobsters]]

*“Lobsters were creatures of the vacuum, faceless posthumans, their eyes and ears wired to sensors woven through the suits. Pilot never ate. He never drank.” (Sterling 220*
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Shapers\|Shapers]]

“We sell memory drugs, [...] Vasopressins, carbolines, endorphins. Stimulants, tranquilizers. Laughers, screamers, shouters, you name it. If there's a market for it, the Nephrine black chemists can make it. If we can't synthesize it, we'll filter it from tissue” (Sterling 16)

“I've met many borderline posthumans in my day, but never one of you. Is it true that they enforced an entire second state of consciousness? Is it true that when you're fully operational, you yourself don't know if you're speaking the truth? That they used psychodrugs to destroy your capacity for sincerity?” (Sterling 20

*"This man is a Mavrides by marriage, you said. A nongenetic." "A eunique, you mean? Yes. He's not allowed to contribute his genes to the line." (Sterling 114*

“unplanned genes”  (Sterling 115

“The young bride was the dead woman's clone, sharing her name and her genes” (Sterling 116

“Carnassus is a very dazed, very gentle person, who was terribly wounded. When his embassy was failing, he took an experimental drug, PDKL-Ninety-five. It was supposed to help him grasp alien modes of thought, but it shattered him. He was a brave man. We feel pity for him. The sexual aspect is a very minor part of it.” (Sterling 142

“This is erotica, ... Skin at twenty thousand times life size” (Sterling 145

"I'm still a tenant of the flesh, yes” (Sterling 157

“thanks to Shaper breeding policies, the young hold a majority” (Sterling 157

“Half her genetics were Vera Kelland's, drawn from skin flakes he had taken before the woman's suicide” (Sterling 160

“The Superbrights were too brilliant for community; they demanded the world-shattering anarchy of supermen. That could not be tolerated” (Sterling 161

"She's not a full clone." "Of course not. Vera Kelland was unplanned."  (Sterling 175
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Kitsune\|Kitsune]]
*"They took my womb out, and they put in brain tissue. Grafts from the pleasure center, darling. I'm wired to the ass and the spine and the throat, and it's better than being God. When I'm hot, I sweat perfume. I'm cleaner than a fresh needle, and nothing leaves my body that you can't drink like wine or eat like candy. And they left me bright, so that I would know what submission was. Do you know what submission is, darling?"  (Sterling 34*

“the world of humanity was a world of losses, broken hopes, and original sin, a flawed world, yearning always for mercy, empathy, compassion.... It was not her world.” (Sterling 38

*“The room was full of flesh. It was made of it: satiny brown skin, broken here and there by rugs of lustrous black hair and mauve flashes of mucus membrane. Everything was involuted, curved: armchair lounges, a rounded mass like a bed of flesh, studded with mauve holes. Blood thrummed through a pipe-sized artery beneath his feet. Another hooded lamp-device swiveled up on a sleek-skinned elbowed hinge. Dark eyes observed him. A mouth opened in the sleek rump of a footstool beside him. "Take off those velcro boots, darling. They itch."” (Sterling 152-153*

“"Where's your body?" "I had it scrapped."”  (Sterling 153

“Carnassus belongs to me. My surgeons have been at him. There's not a neuron in him that pleasure hasn't blasted. Life is simple for him, a constant dream of flesh.”  (Sterling 155

“technology of flesh” (Sterling 201

“Wallmother's skin bacteria” (Sterling 203

“At last report the Wallmother massed four hundred thousand, eight hundred and twelve tons.” (Sterling 204

“The cavernous duty-free shopping area was paved, walled, and ceilinged in flesh. The Cicadas padded along reluctantly, their toes just brushing the resilient skin” (Sterling 204

“sex pheromones. The architecture was aroused” (Sterling 205

*“the former buildings had been stripped down to mere frameworks, trellises for flesh. Voluptuous organics rose at every side, euclidean corners scrapped for smooth maternal curves. Structures flowed up from the floor to merge in swan's-neck arches into the lustrous ceiling. Buildings were dimpled, hollowed, the sleek pink of sphinctered doors sliding imperceptibly into skin lightly stippled with down” (Sterling 205*

*“These furnishings are exemplars of our Wallmother's erototechnology. They exist for your comfort and pleasure. I must inform you, though, that our Wallmother reserves the right to fecundity." ...] "Any children sired by the men of your group will be full citizens. All Wallchildren are equally beloved. I happen to be a perfect clone, but I've won my post by merit, in the Mother's love” (Sterling 205*

“I was wrong, darling. Being God is better.”  (Sterling 210

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Europa's Angels\|Europa's Angels]]

“an Angel's portrait: an aquatic posthuman”  (Sterling 232

"No intestines." "Yes. The white nets filter sulfur for bacteria. Each Angel is self-sufficient, drawing life, warmth, everything from the water." "I see," Constantine said. "Community with anarchy.... Do they speak?" Lindsay leaned forward, pointing to the phosphorescent lights. "They glow." "And do they reproduce?" "There are genetics labs. Aquatic ones. Children can be created. But these creatures can last out centuries."  (Sterling 232

“Transformed surgeons were assisting at the birth of Angels, tracking the growth of new nerves through the altered flesh” (Sterling 235

#### About death

“suicide, the last protest” (Sterling 5

“better to burn in a rush than live two hundred years as a Mechanist wirehead."  (Sterling 6

*“one civil right: the right to death”  (Sterling 10*

*“for a price the Geisha Bank offers shinju: double suicide with a companion from the staff” (Sterling 21*

"That's our curse; there's always time for everything” (Sterling 120

*"It's my mortality, [...]It meant so much to me once.” (Sterling 125*
 
“it hurts me, watching age cut into you. It's gone far enough. It's just not reasonable…”  (Sterling 126

*“demortalization clinic” (Sterling 127*

“Forty years is a human lifetime, Mr. Dze. Don't force yourself to be human” (Sterling 147

*“Neville Pongpianskul was dead, but it was not polite to refer to the fact” (Sterling 231*
#### About dehumanisation

*“the robots were bipedal; they were crudely designed. Lindsay realized suddenly that they were human beings in suits and gas masks.” (Sterling 13*

*“they could have rendered you for your body chemicals" (Sterling 17*

“hideously inbred and afflicted with double thumbs and congenital deafness. Others claimed there was nothing remotely human beyond the Wall: just a proliferating cluster of software, which had acquired a sinister autonomy” (Sterling  24

“nothing marked the dead as human beings except the military insignia on their shoulders” (Sterling 28

*“lots of good protein in a corpse" (Sterling 30*

“its passengers were drugged meat” (Sterling 50

“You're a nonperson now. Except to us.”  (Sterling 145

“The Republic has no interest in those our age, those who are estranged in any way from the raw state of humanity” (Sterling 164

*“a six-month probationary period against a five-year joint management contract, standard terms, monogamous?”  (Sterling 165*

"I look to you to set our sexuality clause." (Sterling 165

“Injections had paralyzed his optic nerve. A spinal clamp left him able to feel but not to move. Blind and deaf, numbed by the blood-warmed water, Paolo Mavrides had been in sensory isolation for two weeks. A tracheal plug fed him oxygen. Intravenous taps kept him from starving” (Sterling 165

“At my age," Lindsay said, "if I were human I'd already be dead."  (Sterling 189

*“Frankly antihuman clades like the Spectral Intelligents, the Lobsters, and the Blood Bathers were somehow incorporated into the repertoire of possibility and even made into jokes” (Sterling 195*

“But a tree dies when its roots are cut, and Lindsay knew his roots were his humanity. He was a thing of flesh and blood, of life and death, not an Immanent Will” (Sterling 229

*“A group of Blood Bathers basked in the sun, waiting with animal patience for their skins to grow again”  (Sterling 231*
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Terran animals and Environment\|Terran animals and Environment]]

*“The Terrans wanted stability, that's why they set up the Interdict. They didn't want technology to break them into pieces, as it's done to us. They blamed technology for the disasters. The war plagues, the carbon dioxide that melted the ice caps.... They can't forget their dead.”  (Sterling 224*

*“He mourned mankind, and the blindness of men, who thought that the Kosmos had rules and limits that would shelter them from their own freedom. There were no shelters. There were no final purposes. Futility, and freedom, were Absolute” (Sterling 224*

*“Life: untouched, primeval life, swarmed in boiling splendor at the fiery edges of the Earth's tectonic plates. An entire ecosystem, older than mankind, clustered there in all its miraculous richness. Life that could be seized, that could be Europa's. At first he had rejected the idea. The Interdict was sacred: as old as the unspoken guilt of ancestral spacefarers, who had deserted Earth as disaster loomed. In their desertion, they had robbed the planet of the very expertise that might have saved it. Over centuries of life in space, that guilt had sunk into a darkened region of cultural awareness, surfacing only as caricature, as ritual denial and deliberate ignorance”  (Sterling 225*

“Earth's future did not belong to humanity but to the monstrous weeds, grown strange and woody, and whatever small fleet creatures leaped and bred among them” (Sterling 225

*“Within the warmth and darkness, the valley seethed with life. The rock itself seemed to live, festooned with porous knobs and slimed crevasses, red-black tubes of cold lava-stone coiling like snakes, phallic chimneys of precipitated minerals gleaming copper-green with verdigris. Pale crabs with legs as long as a man's arm kicked daintily across the slopes. Jet-black abyssal fish, grown fat on unexpected bounty, moved with slick langour through the clustered stalks of the tubeworms. Bright yellow jellies, like severed flowerheads, floated in thick eddies of bacterial soup. "Everything," Lindsay breathed. "I want it all.” (Sterling 227*

“would inherit this genetic treasure, tease it apart, and rebuild new creatures for the new conditions. The living beings here would be models, archetypes in a new Creation, where art and purpose would take the place of a billion years of evolution” (Sterling 229

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Cloned Animals\|Cloned Animals]]

“Roaches were a vital part of the spacecraft ecosystem, cleaning up crumbs of food, licking up grease”  (Sterling 55

*“Had some mice installed. You know mice? Bred 'em back to the wild state from lab specimens. You know their eyes weren't pink in the wild?”  (Sterling 191*

*“I've had a slip of this cat's skin shipped off to the Ring Council. Have to clone off a whole gene-line of them. Because of the mice, you know. Little vermin are overrunning everything.” (Sterling 191-192*

“She lifted the cage cover and showed him the clan treasure, an albino laboratory rat”  (Sterling 212

*“There was nothing in the rat's jellied pink eyes, not even the dimmest flicker of animal awareness”  (Sterling 212*
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Aliens\|Aliens]]

*“There were more, a dozen of them. They were huge. Their legs alone were as tall as men, enormous corded masses of muscle, bone, and tendon under slickly polished corrugated hide. Scales. Brown scaled hide showed under their clothing: they wore skirts, glittering beads on wire. Their mighty chests were bare, with great keelbone ridges of sternum. Compared to the treelike legs and the massive jutting tails, their arms were long and slender, with quick, swollen-tipped fingers and oddly socketed thumbs. Their heads were huge, the size of a man's torso, split with great cavernous grins full of thumb-sized flat peg teeth. They seemed to have no ears, and their black eyeballs, the size of fists, were shielded under pebbly lids and grayish nictitating membranes. Ribbed, iridescent frills draped the backs of their heads.” (Sterling 100*

“out of nineteen known alien races” (Sterling 123

*“The gravity was painful, but the stateroom lights had been turned down” (Sterling 135*

“Queens intromitted their eggs into the womblike pouches of their males. The males fertilized the eggs and brought them to term within the pouch. The neuter Ensigns controlled ovulation through a complex hormonal pseudo-copulation. The criminal Queen had killed her Ensign in a fit of passion and set up a common male in his place. But without a true Ensign, the cycles of her sexuality had become distorted. Lindsay's evidence showed her destroying one of her malformed eggs. To an Investor, it was worse than perversion, worse even than murder: it was bad for business” (Sterling 168

“Within the Arena's simulated environment, the duelists would battle in two alien bodies of guaranteed equality, thus ensuring that victory would go to the superior strategist”  (Sterling 173

“A pair of wrinkled organs protruded on stalks from his back: he brushed his muzzle against them and suddenly, dizzyingly, he smelled yellow. He tried to scream, then. He had nothing to scream with” (Sterling 177

“the alien pain garbled in translation” (Sterling 177

“wads of grammar mashed beneath the impact of the drug”  (Sterling 178

*“The Chondrule Cloud Processors were willing to move in, but only if Venus could be atomized for easier digestion. The Nerve Coral Aquatics expressed mild interest in invading the Earth, but this would mean breaking the sacred tradition of Interdict. The Culture Ghosts were willing to join with anyone who could endure them, but their hideous effects on the Schismatric diplomatic corps had made them objects of genuine horror. The gasbags of Fomalhaut offered most. It had taken many decades to master their "language," which was best expressed as complex unstable states of atmospheric dynamics” (Sterling 214*

The Presence had its own gravity; it clung to the floor as if pulled there. It warped and rippled, taking form to please him. (Sterling 235

*“Atop its clean white ladder of vertebrae, his empty skull sank grinning into the collar of his coat” (Sterling 236*

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Bacteria\|Bacteria]]

“Bacteria still swarmed through his body”  (Sterling 38

“The attenuated blossoms of the Shaper garden mildewed and crumbled at the touch of raw humanity. The vegetation took strange forms as it suffered and contorted, its stems corkscrewing in rotdusted perversions of growth” (Sterling 103

“The yogurt was a special preparation for non-Shapers whose intestines had been rendered antiseptic. It was bitter with digestive enzymes” (Sterling 112

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming\|False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming]]

“Life moves in clades." He smiled. "A clade is a daughter species, a related descendant. It's happened to other successful animals, and now it's humanity's turn. The factions still struggle, but the categories are breaking up. No faction can claim the one true destiny for mankind. Mankind no longer exists."” (Sterling 150

“The future belongs to Posthumanism, Lindsay. Not to nation-states, not to factions. It belongs to life, and life moves in clades." (Sterling 170

"Really? Posthumanism! Prigoginic levels of complexity! Fractal scales, bedrock of space-time, precontinuum ur-space! Have I got it right?" (Sterling 188

"Never mind them. I'm talking basic loyalties now. Like that tree. Are you on its side, against the inorganic?"  (Sterling 189

"Terraforming," Lindsay said slowly. "I've seen theories. Speculations. And I suppose that it's possible. But what does it have to do with us?" "A true commitment to the side of Life demands the moral act of Creation," Gomez said promptly” (Sterling 189

"Ecosystem design. Rebuilding life for new conditions. A little biochemistry, a little statistical physics, you can pick it up here and there, that's where the excitement” (Sterling 189

“biomorality” (Sterling 191

“biosculpting whole ecosystems into being. For the first time, humanity would be bigger than life: a living world would owe its existence to humankind, and not vice versa” (Sterling 199

"Maybe it's the secret of life! But if it is, can we bear it? Can we meet the goals we set ourselves? Over centuries? What about the simple things? How can I find any joy in a single day when the specters of these centuries loom over me?” (Sterling 200

“Like seeing the bones of mathematics under the flesh of the world. But even if the principles are true, then what about the flesh? We are the flesh! What about the flesh?”  (Sterling 200

“As dreams go, Posthumanism has merits”  (Sterling 210

“Lifesiders had planned a series of massive disasters for the inorganic. It would start with algae” (Sterling 218