---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/2-swarm/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Aliens\|Aliens]]

“you seek to imitate them, then? You would make monsters of yourselves” (Sterling. Swarm 240

There is no concept of privacy or property here. This is the Nest. If you seize any part of it for yourself—to store equipment, to sleep in, whatever—then you become an intruder, an enemy. The two Mechanists— a man and a woman—tried to secure an empty chamber for their computer lab. Warriors broke down their door and devoured them. Scavengers ate their equipment, glass, metal, and all." (Sterling. Swarm 243

There are at least fifteen different kinds of symbiotes here. Those that accompany me are called the springtails, and they speak only for themselves. They are savages, Doctor, who received attention from the Investors only because they can still talk. They were a spacefaring race once, but they've forgotten it. They discovered the Nest and they were absorbed, they became parasites. (Sterling. Swarm 244

*This Nest, these creatures—they're not intelligent, Captain. They can't think, they can't learn. They're innocent, primordially innocent. They have no knowledge of good and evil. They had no knowledge of anything. The last thing they need is to become pawns in a power struggle within some other race, light-years away." (Sterling. Swarm 246*

*As for the scandalous idea of a slave race—I reject it out of hand. These creatures are genetic robots. They will no more be slaves than are laser drills or cargo tankers. At the very worst, they will be our domestic animals." (Sterling. Swarm 250*

*One of the tendrils had been thrust through Mirny's skull. Her body hung in midair, limp as wax. Her eyes were open, but blind. Another tendril was plugged into the braincase of a mutated worker. The worker still had the pallid tinge of a larva; it was shrunken and deformed, and its mouth had the wrinkled look of a human mouth. There was a blob like a tongue in the mouth, and white ridges like human teeth. It had no eyes. (Sterling. Swarm 254*

*"I invite you to become a symbiote. I have here a male and a female, whose genes are altered and therefore without defects. You make a perfect breeding pair. It will save me a great deal of trouble with cloning." (Sterling. Swarm 256*

We have not killed any of the fifteen other races we have taken for defensive study (Sterling. Swarm 256

We are generous with our immortality; we will take it upon ourselves to preserve you. (Sterling. Swarm 257
#### About humanity

"Space is an unnatural environment, and it takes an unnatural effort from unnatural people to prosper there (Sterling. Swarm 247

In another thousand years we'll be machines, or gods. (Sterling. Swarm 248

Already your race is flying to pieces under the impact of your own expertise. The original human form is becoming obsolete. Your own genes have been altered, and you, Captain-Doctor, are a crude experiment. In a hundred years you will be a relic. In a thousand years you will not even be a memory. Your race will go the same way as a thousand others." (Sterling. Swarm 255

