---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/3-spider-rose/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

### **Quotations** 

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Aliens\|Aliens]]
It was a genetic artifact, able to judge the emotional wants and needs of an alien species and adapt itself to them in a matter of days (Sterling. Spider Rose 266

Besides, she doubted that anything so complex could have grown in a womb. Its genes would have to be built, spicule by spicule, in some unimaginable lab. (Sterling. Spider Rose 267

The sound of her own laughter no longer startled her. She had even cut back on her dosages of suppressants and inhibitors. Her pet seemed so much happier when she was happy, and when it was at hand her ancient sadness seemed easier to bear. One by one she began to face old pains and traumas, holding her pet close and shedding healing tears into its glittering fur (Sterling. Spider Rose 267

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Spider Rose\|Spider Rose]]
two-hundred-year-old Mechanist, living in a spinning web of a habitat orbiting Uranus, her body seething with youth hormones, her wise old-young face like something pulled fresh from a plaster mold, her long white hair a rippling display of implanted fiber-optic threads with tiny beads of light oozing like microscopic gems from their slant-cut tips.... She was old, but she didn't think about that. And she was lonely, but she had crushed those feelings with drugs (Sterling. Spider Rose 258

Soon she was herself again. She smiled. These sudden attacks were something she took for granted. She took an oral tranquilizer to stop the trembling of her hands and antacid for the stress on her stomach. (Sterling. Spider Rose 265

*artificial calmness allowed her to think the unthinkable (Sterling. Spider Rose 270*

It's the sensible thing. When I'm like this I can only do the sensible thing (Sterling. Spider Rose 270

When the roaches—or at least all those she could trap in the darkness— were gone, she fasted for a long dark time. Then she ate her pet's undecayed flesh, half hoping even in her numbness that it would poison her. (Sterling. Spider Rose 270

*There was something wrong inside of her. Her malnourished belly was as tight as a drum, and her lungs felt crushed. Her bones felt wrong. Tears wouldn't come. They kept at her. She wanted to die. She wanted their love and understanding. She wanted-- Her throat was full. She couldn't talk. Her head tilted back, and her eyes shrank in the searing blaze of the overhead lights. She heard painless cracking noises as her jaws unhinged. Her breathing stopped. It came as a relief. Antiperistalsis throbbed in her gullet, and her mouth filled with fluid. A living whiteness oozed from her lips and nostrils. Her skin tingled at its touch, and it flowed over her eyeballs, sealing and soothing them. A great coolness and lassitude soaked into her as wave after wave of translucent liquid swaddled her, gushing over her skin, coating her body. She relaxed, filled with a sensual, sleepy gratitude. She was not hungry. She had plenty of excess mass. In eight days she broke from the brittle sheets of her cocoon and fluttered out on scaly wings, eager for the leash. (Sterling. Spider Rose 270-271*
#### Others
loosely called "humanity" for lack of a better term (Sterling. Spider Rose 259

*She remembered scoffing at the idea that the sloppy dependence of, say, a "dog" or "cat" could rival the clean economy and efficiency of a roach. (Sterling. Spider Rose 264*

Three ships manned with your own clones. How long have you holed up in that rock of yours, like a maggot in an apple? Cloning and cloning. When was the last time a woman let you touch her (Sterling. Spider Rose 269

