---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/4-cicada-queen/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

### **Quotations**

### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Shapers\|Shapers]] and [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Mechanists\|Mechanists]]
Nor do I mean the mass of so-called humanity. After all, you Shapers are constructed of genes patented by Reshaped genetics firms. You might be properly defined as industrial artifacts." (Sterling. Cicada 273

the Mechanists are slowly abandoning human flesh in favor of cybernetic modes of existence (Sterling. Cicada 273

The intestines of Mechanists seethed with bacteria, and their effects could be disastrous. (Sterling. Cicada 279

Shaper fascists and dehumanized Mechanist sects (Sterling. Cicada 280

old-style Mechs, but I do know that most of the first ones are dead. Outdated, crowded out. Driven over the edge by future shock (Sterling. Cicada 284

The Shapers blundered when they pushed things to the limits. The Ring Council tried to break the so-called Two-Hundred Barrier last century. Most of the so-called Superbrights went mad, defected, turned against their fellows, or all three (Sterling. Cicada 284

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Lobsters\|Lobsters]]
Lobsters lived exclusively within skin-tight lifesupport systems, flanged here and there with engines and input-output jacks. The suits were faceless and dull black. The Lobsters looked like chunks of shadow.  (Sterling. Cicada 292

*A few nerve grafts, some anal surgery, a tracheotomy. . . You lose on taste and touch, but the other senses are vastly expanded (Sterling. Cicada 293*

They never ate. They never drank. Sex involved a clever cyber-stimulation through cranial plugs. Every five years or so they "molted" and had their skins scraped clean of the stinking accumulation of mutated bacteria that scummed them over in the stagnant warmth. (Sterling. Cicada 294

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming\|False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming]]
Posthumanism offers fluidity and freedom, and a metaphysic daring enough to think a whole world into life. It enables us to take up economically absurd projects such as the terraforming of Mars, which your pseudopragmatic attitude could never dare to attempt. And yet think of the gain involved." (Sterling. Cicada 274

*Posthumanism schooled us to think in terms of fits and starts, of structures accreting along unspoken patterns, following the lines first suggested by the ancient Terran philosopher Ilya Prigogine. (Sterling. Cicada 274*
#### Other
In my mind's eye flickered the nightmare image of our naked skins slicked with blood (Sterling. Cicada 279
