---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/5-sunken-gardens/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---



#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming\|False Posthumanist Philosophy + Terraforming]]

arcane bioaesthetics of Posthumanist philosophy (Sterling. Gardens 302

*Screaming birds circled beneath the foul torus, falling by tens and scores and hundreds. Their bodies littered the garden's sea, their bright plumage blurred with ash in a steel-gray sump. (Sterling. Gardens 310*

*She spotted the animal as it broke from cover. It was a scorched and gasping creature like a great red ape. She dashed forward and seized it in the crawler's arms. Held aloft, it clawed and kicked, hammering the crawler's arms with a smoldering branch. In revulsion and pity, she crushed it. Its bodice of tight-sewn ibis feathers tore, revealing blood-slicked human flesh (Sterling. Gardens 310-311*

*"But think of the people," Mirasol said. "Think of them losing their technologies, degenerating into human beings. A handful of savages, eating bird meat. Think of the fear they felt for generations, the way they burned their own home and killed themselves when they saw us come to smash and destroy their world. Aren't you filled with horror?" "For humans?" the Sorienti said. "No!" "But can't you see? You've given this planet life as as art form, as an enormous game. You force us to play in it, and those people were killed for it! Can't you see how that blights everything?" "Our game is reality," the Regal said. She gestured at the viewscreen. "You can't deny the savage beauty of destruction." "You defend this catastrophe?" The Regal shrugged. "If life worked perfectly, how could things evolve? Aren't we Posthuman? Things grow; things die. In time the cosmos kills us all. The cosmos has no meaning, and its emptiness is absolute. That's pure terror, but it's also pure freedom. Only our ambitions and our creations can fill it." (Sterling. Gardens 312*
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Patternists\|Patternists]]

*The Patternists specialized in cerebral asymmetry. With grossly expanded right-brain hemispheres, they were highly intuitive, given to metaphors, parallels, and sudden cognitive leaps. Their inventive minds and quick, unpredictable genius had given them a competitive edge at first. But with these advantages had come grave weaknesses: autism, fugue states, and paranoia (Sterling. Gardens 304*

Her intuitive right brain was swollen beyond human bounds, distorting her skull. Her face had the blank prettiness of her genetic heritage, but she could feel the bleak strain of her expression. Her body looked shapeless under her quilted pilot's vest and dun-drab, general-issue blouse and trousers. Her fingertips were raw from biting. (Sterling. Gardens 306

