---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/2-sterling/6-twenty-evocations/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

### **Quotations**

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Shapers\|Shapers]], [[Primary Bibliography/2. Sterling/Bodies/Mechanists\|Mechanists]] and everything else

Shapers are never born." "Who lives on Earth now?" "Human beings." "Ohhhh," said Nikolai, his falling tones betraying a rapid loss of interest. (Sterling. Evocations 313

*"Gene-lines," the Mechanist snarled. "I can buy you, grow you, sell you, cut you into bits. Your screams: my music." (Sterling. Evocations 313*

His legless, armless body floated in a transparent nutrient tank, where tinted plasmas soothed the purplish ends of socketed nerve clumps. A body-servo waded into the tank and began to attach the assassin's arms. (Sterling. Evocations 315

*I didn't create her. She's my dead wife's posthumous clone. And she's the property of my wife's corporations, or, rather, her trust fund, which I manage as executor.... No, what I mean to say is that she owns, or at least has a lienhold on, my dead wife's semiautonomous corporate property, which becomes hers at the age of majority (Sterling. Evocations 315*

We only want a quiet place to finish working while God eats our brains." (Sterling. Evocations 316

"Where did you get those antique eyes?" "They were my mother's. I inherited them. But you're a Shaper, of course. You wouldn't know what a mother was." (Sterling. Evocations 317

. I suppose that makes me your—I forget the term." "Father." (Sterling. Evocations 317

*The roar of chemical pleasure made sex irrelevant. "Why . . . why bother?" he gasped. His wife looked surprised. "It's traditional." (Sterling. Evocations 317*

The machines seized and repossessed the old man's arms and legs. (Sterling. Evocations 318