---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/1-consider-phlebas/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

"You want to know who the real representative of the culture is on this planet? It's not her," ... "it's that powered flesh-slicer she has following her everywhere, her knifew missile. She might make the decisions, it might have to do what she tells it, but it's the real emissary. That's what the Culture is about: machines. You think because Balveda's got two legs and soft skin you should be on her side, but it's the Idirans who are on the side of life in this war—" 10

But now they're up against you lot, and that's what makes the difference to me. Because I'm against you, rather than for them 26

I don't care how self-righteous the Culture feels, or how many people the Idirans kill. They're on the side of life—boring, old-fashioned, biological life; smelly, fallible and short-sighted, God knows, but *real* life. You're ruled by your machines. You're an evolutionary dead end. The trouble is that to take your mind off it you try to drag everybody down there with you. The worst thing that could happen to the galaxy would be if the Culture wins this war. 27

Special Circumstances had always been the Contact section's moral espionage weapon, the very cutting edge of the Culture's interfering diplomatic policy, the elite of the elite, in a society which abhorred elitism. ... It was glamurous but dangerous, posessed of an aura of roguish sexiness—there was no other word for it—which implied predation,seduction, even violation 28

a society that virtually worshipped openness 28

a society which clung to its absolutes: life/good, death/bad; pleasure/good, pain/bad 28

machines without illusions who prided themselves on thinking the thinkable to its ultimate extremities 29

Culture people had little stomach for being dislinked by anybody, least of all their fellow citizens 29

They had their communist Utopia. They were soft and pampered and indulged, and the Contact section's evangelical materialism provided their conscience-salving good works 34

The fools in the Culture couldn't see that one day the Minds would start thinking how wasteful and inefficient the humans in the Culture themselves were 34

"They say they're pretty special, some of these Culture agents. Supposed to be able to... do tricks, you know? All sorts of special adaptations and fancy body chemistry" 64

He tried to count the number of times he'd had to listen to people—usually from third- or low fourth-level societies, usually fairly human-basic, and more often than not male—talking in hushed, enviously admiring tones about how It's More Fun in the Culture 64

Horza occasionally became angry with humans who exhibited the sort of fawning respect the Culture's quasi-technological sexuality often engendered 64

...Yeah, and they have those drug glands, ... Supposed to be able to take a hit of almost anything, any time they want. Just by thinking about it. Secrete stuff that makes them high." 65

"You know, they say you can't rape a Culture woman?" ... "Yeah, they've got class, those women. Not like some of the shit on this ship." 65

A tinge of that mixture of contempt and patronising smugness the Culture found it so difficult not to exhibit when surveying the mistakes of less advanced societies, even though the source civilisations of its mongrel past had been no less fallible 96

She wondered whether they really had kept their word about not watching her when she went climbing. She wouldn't put it past them to have kept a small drone or micromissile or something nearby, just in case anything did happen, and then—after the accident, after she'd fallen—left her lying there, frightened, cold and in pain, just to convince her they were doing no such thing, and to see the effect it had on her, as long as she wasn't in any real danger of dying. She knew, after all, the way their Minds worked. 100

The Culture would lay down the law (except, of course, that the Culture didn't have any real laws) about what being human was, or how intelligent a particular species was (while at the same time making clear that pure intelligence didn't mean much on its own), or how long people should live (though only as a rough guide, naturally), and people would accept these things without question, because everybody believed the Culture's own propaganda, that it was fair, unbiased, disinterested, concerned only with absolute truth... and so on. 156

The Culture was every single individual human and machine in it, not one thing. Just as it could not imprison itself with laws, impoverish itself with money or misguide itself with leaders, so it would not misrepresent itself with signs 161

Horza could see no end to its policy of continual and escalating interference. Itcould esily grow forever, because it was not governed by natural limitations. Like a rogue cell, a cancer with no "off" switch in its genetic composition, the Culture would go on expanding for as long as it was allowed to. 173

He wondered how Culture people faced the war; they were supposed to be able to *decide* to die, too, though it was said to be more complicated than simple poison. But how did they resist it, those soft, peace-pampered souls? He imagined them in combat, auto-euthanising almost the instant the first shots landed, the first wounds started to appear. The thought made him smile. 176

How very *untidy* of the Culture, he thought absently, to allow an insect on board one of their sparkling vessels 246

This was what the Culture offered, this wasc its signal, its advertisement, its legacy: chaos from order, destruction from construction, death from life. 295

the final, grisly manifestation of the Culture's lethal idealism, the overdue acknowledgement that not only was it no better than any other society, it was much, much worse 295 

But the *Culture*? Where even in the war forces "discipline" was regarded as a taboo word, where people always wanted to know *why* this and *why* that?

*The glut of contempt we seem to have achieved. Our own disguised contempt for "primitives", the contempt of those who left the Culture when war was declared for those who chose to fight the Idirans; the contempt so many of our own people feel for Special Circumstances... the contempt we all guess the Minds must feel for us... and elsewhere; the Idirans' contempt for us, all of us humans; and human contempt for Changers. A federated disgust, a galaxy of scorn. Us with our busy, busy little lives, finding no better way to pass our years than in competitive disdain* 367

*Our ancestors were the lost-and-found of the galaxy, continually breeding and breeding and milling and killing, their societies and civilisations forever falling apart and reforming... There had to be something wrong with us, something mutant in the system, something too quick and nervous and frantic for our own good or anybody else's. We are such pathetic, fleshy things, so short lived, swarming and confused. And dull, just so stupid, to an Idiran.
Physical repugnance, then, but worse to come. We are self-altering, we meddle with the code of life itself, re-spelling the Word which is the Way, the incantation of being. Interfering with oyr own inheritance, and interfering in the development of othert peoples (ha! an interest we share)... And worsestill, worst of all, not just producing, but embracing and giving ourselves over totally to the ultimate anathema: the 369 Minds, the sentient machines; the very image and essence of life itself, desecrated. Idolatry incarnate.
No wonder that they despise us. Poor sick mutations that we are, petty and obscene, servants of the machine-devils that we worship.* 368-369 

*And if we tamper with our inheritance, so what? What is more ours to tamper with? What makes nature more right than us? If we get it wrong that's because we are stupid, not because the idea was bad. And if we are no longer on the breaking edge of the wave, well, too bad. Hand on the baton; best wishes; have fun* 371

That's how I inherited the genofixing for trans-species mating. I never thought about it before. It's supposed to be deliberate, or at least you've got to stop thinking yourself into *not* getting pregnant, but it didn't work this time. Maybe I let my guard slip somehow. ... I can abort it. Just by thinking about it I can get rid of it, if you want. Maybe I'd have done that already, but I know you've told me about not having any family, nobody to carry on your name, and I thought... 401

It was the Culture's fault. It considered itself too civilized and sophisticated to hate its enemies; instead it tried to understand them and their motives, so that it could out-think them and so that, when it won, it would treat them in a way which ensured they would not become enemies again. The idea was fine as long as you didn't get too close, but once you had spent some time with your opponents, such empathy could turn against you. There was a sort of deatatched, non-human aggression required to go along such mobilized compassion, and Balveda could feel it slipping away from her. 464

Thus the Culture had no need to colonize, exploit or enslave 499

The only desire the Culture could not satisfy from within itself was one common to both the descendants of its original human stock and the machines they had (at however great a remove) brought into being: the urge not to feel useless. 499

Fal goes to empathy mode in 367, 368, 369, 371, 372. Balveda is stored and then self-euthanises at page 508. Fal's "where are they now" in page 510 featuring some gender changes and a generally well-interesting culture life. 

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Minds, Drones and other AI\|Minds, Drones and other AI]]

The one perfect, priceless component the factory craft did have was the vastly powerful — though still raw and untrained — Mind around which it had constructed the rest of the ship 1

had their design 4 permitted such a thing, those electronic brains would now have felt dismay 3-4

For a thousand years or more Culture drones had had aura fields which colored according to their mood—their equivalent of facial expression and body language 89

a case could be made for holding that the Culture was its machines, that they represented it at a more fundamental level than did any single human or group of humans within the society 90

They were so intelligent that no human was capable of understanding just how smart tey were (and the machines themselves were incapable of describing it to such a limited form of life) 90

From those mental colossi, down through the more ordinary but still sentient machines and the smart but ultimately mechanistic and predictable computers, right down to the smallest circuit in a micro-missile hardly more intelligent than a fly, he Culture had placed its bets—long before the Idiran war had been envisaged—on the machine rather than the human brain 90

Jase, which deep down was a hopeless romantic, thought her laughter sounded like the tinkling of mountain streams, and always recorded her laughs for itself, even when they were snorts or guffaws, even when she was being rude and it was a dirty laugh. Jase knew a machine, even a sentient one, could not die of shame, but it also knew that it would do just that if Fal ever guessed any of this 93

"It's called the instinct to survive." ... "It's programmed into most living things." 98-99

I haven't been watching the people I'm here to rescue; I was told not to, in case I got upset, but I did hear people screaming when they came near and they seemed frighrened when they came inside me 186

where the shuttle's brain had been 190

It wasn't it real self. It was a crude, abstracted copy of itself, the mere ground plan for the full labyrinthine complexity of its true personality. It was the truest possible copy its limited scale was theoretially capable of providing, and it was still sentient; conscious by even the most rigurous of standards. ... It felt unworthy. It felt fallible and limited and... dull. 195

But after all, here it was, trapped; an intellectual cripple, a philosophical shadow of its former self 196

The Culture would treat the destruction of the craft's consciousness as murder 205

its synthesized voice full of exasperation 256

"With pleasure!" the drone said, and shook itself to get rid of the cables looped round its casing. "As usual I'm the last to be told what's going on, but I know I don't want to stick around this—" 258

"How *dare* you speak to me like that!" the drone bellowed. "I'll have you know I am an Accredited Free Construct, certified sentient under the Free Will Acts by the Greater Vavatch United Moral Standards Administration and with full citizenship of the Vavatch Heterocracy. I am near to paying off my Incurred Generation Debt, when I'll be free to do *exactly*what I like, and have already been accepted for a degree course in applied paratheology at the University of—" 289

I would prefer, though, if you called me by my name, and not just by that word you manage to make sound like an expletive: 'machine'. I am *called* Unaha-Closp. Is it asking too much for you to address me as such?" 294

I am not just a computer, I am a drone. I am conscious and I have an individual identity. Therefore I have a name. 294

Horza wasn't worried about the machine Unaha-Closp; it would do as it was told, like machines always did. Only the Culture let them get so fancy they really did seem to have wills of their own 349

I said machines ought to stay in their place. Not the sort of remark that goes down well with the Culture. 399

The man was a speciesist! *Me, just a machine,* thought Unaha-Closp, *how dare he!* 433

Only Unaha-Closp knew what it felt, only it knew why it had risked injury to protect the humans. Or it *should* know, it told itself ruefully. Maybe it shouldn't have bothered; maybe it should just have let the Idiran shoot them. 434

Ordered back. Told to return. Like it was a slave, one of the Idirans' medjel; as though it was a machine. Let them wait a little. 450

So much for their humanity, or whatever they chose to call it, thought Unaha-Closp. Only their machines remained. But would any of the others learned? 451

*Of course I end up doing all the work. I might have known. Basically what I'm doing for that bastard is hunting down another machine. I ought to have my circuits tested. I've a good mind not to tell him even if I do find the Mind somewhere* 456

#### About Types of Pan-Human

Gerontocrat 9

They were all humans, or close to 41

Her skin was dark, and she had spiky fair hair. Her whole body looked slim and hard; she walked, Horza thought, like a man. As she got closer Horza saw she was slightly furred on her face, legs and arms, which the long shirt she wor revealed. 43

those are the Bratsilakins," ... "One, Two and Three," ... "We must be the only Free Company with a clone group that's paranoid" 51

"His gimmick is he never sleps. He has ... an enhanced hemispherical task-division in his brain. One third of the time one half sleeps and he's a bit dreamy and vague; the other third of the time the other half sleeps and he's all logic and numbers and he doesn't communicate too well. 58

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Eaters\|The Eaters]]

they performed the same old act, theirs—they both knew—an almost inevitably barren cross-matching of species and cultures thousands of light-years apart 87

They were human, but that word covered so many different species throughout the galaxy it was a continuing subject for debate who was and who wasn't human 156

they all looked thinner than they ought to have been, and their skin, regardless of hue or shade, looked somehow diseased 156

On the litter sat the most enormous, obscenely fat human Horza had ever seen. ... great mammary-like folds of naked flesh spilled from the creature's upper and middle chest, but they drooped over even more enormous waves of nude, hairless torso-fat, which lay partly cradled in the vast beefs of the giant's akimboed legs and partly overflowing those to droop into the canvas surface of the litter. 157

The voice sounded like congealing fat being poured into a jug; it was a drowning voice, Horza thought, like something from a nightmare 158
we are the Eaters; the Eaters of ashes, the Eaters of filth, the Eaters of sand and tree and grass; the most basic, the most loved, the most real 160

we await the time of our ascension from this mortal plane, with empty bellies and voided bowels and hungry minds! 160

the fingers interweaved like huge, fattened maggots 160

the godless ones, the most hated, the despised-by-the-despised, the Atheists, the Anathematics, have sent us this instrument of the Nothingness 162

Fwi-Song's mouth was a dark hole, with four small fangs portruding when the lips formed a smile 162

Fwi-Song's smile returned with a girlish giggle, and one of the huge hands went to cover the pale lips 162

"this is my naughty boy; called vTwenty-seventh, since his rebirth. This was one of pur respected, much loved sons, one of our anointed, one of our fellow morsels, one of our brotherly taste buds on the great tongue of life 163"

In the next half-hour or so of leisurely paced eating, the enormous prophet nibbled at various bits of Twenty-seventh's body, attaching the extremities and the few remaining fat deposits with his various sets of teeth. The young man gained fresh breath with each new site of butchery. 166

this grotesque distortion of a human being 166

the crushed nody of Twenty-seventh, his moaning silenced forever 167

Only ceremony and the love of Fate distinguish us from the beasts 167

"They eat what others leave, what others will not touch, because they want to be closer to the fabric of Fate. They eat the bark from the trees and the grass from the ground and the moss from the rocks; they eat the shells and the entrails of sea-animals and the carrion of the land and the ocean; they eat their bodily products and share mine. I am the fount. I am the well-spring, the taste on their tongues." 168

See—you don't matter. You're just a hunk of meat. That's all anybody is. And anyway ... pain isn't real. Just chemicals and electrics and that sort of thing, *right?*

Horza watched the eaters prepare their food; they gutted the fish, throwing away the meat and keeping the offal and skins, heads and spikes. They removed the shells from the animals inside and threw the animals away 178

The golden-brown surfaces gleamed in the sunlight as the prophet clasped his fat fingers together 179

Fwi-Song shares his metallic teeth in pages 165, 166. Ritualistic 'crushing' of 27 in page 167.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Changers\|Changers]]

He had shut off the pain from his wrists and shoulders even while the four burly guards, two of them perched on ladders, had secured him in pace. Even so he could feel that niggling sensation at the back of his skull which tolds him that he *ought* to be hurting 7

these Changers are dangerous frightening things! 9

What damage this... *thing* could have caused! Why, when we arrested it two of our guards died just from being *scratched*! Another is blind for life after this monster spat in his eye! 9

It would take a few days for the aged appearance he had assumed to disappear, though already he could feel it starting to slip away from him. In a Changer's mind there was a self-image constantly held and reviewed on a semi-conscious level, keeping the body in the appearance willed 16

There was also a degree of human-basic revulsion reserved for Horza's species. Not only were they much altered from their oiginal genetic stock, they were a threat to identity, a challenge to the individualism even of those they were never likely to impersonate. ... Individuality, the thing which most humans held more precious than anything else about themselves, was somehow cheapened by the ease with which a Changer could ignore it as a limitation and use it as a disguise 45

She was what they called a dormant Changer, one who had no training in and no desire to practice Changing 105

Family ties meant a lot in Changer society 106

Horza was pleased; copying somebody's retina pattern was a delicate and tricky operation, requiring, among a lot of other things, the careful growth of lasing cells around the iris. It almost made more sense to go for a total genetic transcription, where the subject's own DNA became the model for a virus which left only the Changer's brain—and, optionally, gonads—unaltered. 109

He prepared his bruised and aching body for the alteration as best he could: relaxing muscles and readying glands and groups of cells; sending deliberate signals from brain to body and face through nerves that only Changers posessed 152

Animal eyes. Predator's eyes. Caged behind them, looking out. Never sleeping, being three people. Ownership; rifle and ship and Company 152

The Changers regarded pain as a semi-redundant hang-over from their animal evolution; the Culture was simply frightened of it: but the Idirans treated it with a sort of proud contempt 177

*But in any event, you were fashioned, Horza. You did not evolve in a way you'd call "natural"; you are the product of careful thought and genetic tinkering and millitary planning and deliberate design... and 372 war; your very creation depended on it, you are the child of it, you are its legacy.* 371-372

Horza is losing it in pages 222, 223, 224 and 225 because he's having an identity crisis. He takes Kraiklyn's handprints in page 241. He has a nightmare about his lack of belief in page 328.

##### About body modifications regardless of culture
He started to shut off the pain signals, like a weary servant picking up the litter of breakables after an employer's destructive rage 150

going through plastic surgery or behaviour therapy—or both—to make them acceptable in what passes for normal society 200

That was where he had had his face removed and a stainless-steel mask grafted on; only the eyes looked alive: expressionless soft jewels set in the sculpted metal. The mask had a matte finish, to prevent his opponents seeing his cards reflected in his face 209

He'd have some retro-aging done 456
##### About the Damage stuff

Damage—an ordinary card game with a few embellishments to make it attractive to the mentally disturbed 199

scouting hospitals, asylums and freeze-stores for new Lives

Damage's very own special sort of human debris: the moties, victims of the game's emotional fall-out; mind-junkies who exist only to lap at the crumbs of ecstasy and anguish falling from the lips of their heroes, the Players of the Game 200

The Lives were all humans; most already ooked half dead anyway, though they were all physically whole. 210

All the regular Players had the full complement of Lives allowed; some had them specially bred, while others had their agents supply all they wanted. The less rich, not so well known Players, like Kraiklyn, had the sweepings of prisons and 211 asylums, and a few paid depressives who had willed their share of any proceeds to somebody else 210-211

A whole subculture of people hooked on such third-hand feelings had grown up in the few hundred years since Damage had become such a select but popular game: the moties 213

five seated humans, sitting hopeless and despairing as the effects of the emotor fields still resounded in them, sent suddenly slack 215

Damage is explained in page 212. 
##### About sexism, women, femininity

all thirty-two of Wilgre's concubines threw aside their body veils and went down on their knees and elbows, worshipping their lord. ... reputedly the finest one-sex harem in the galaxy 209

Genofixed before conception not only to be stunningly attractive to a wide variety of humanoid males, trhe females in the harem also had highly accentuated aphrodisiac pheromones 219

In page 304, Fal wonders about 'the fascination of sex' and the seriousness of the Idirans, talking about their physiognomy. 
##### About Disability

The boy was perhaps the second-best Damage Player in the galaxy, but he always gave his winnings away, and the average meterbed hotel would have thought twice about admitting him; he was diseased, half blind, incontinent and albino 209

#### About Non Pan-Human Species
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Idirans\|Idirans]]

For God's sake, man, the Idirans won't *eat* you—"
"Ha! They look as though they could! Monsters with three feet; invaders, killers, infidels... You want us to link with them? With three-strides-tall monsters?To be ground under their *hooves*? To have to worship their false gods?"
"At least they have a God, Frolk. The Culture doesn't. 10

The figure was three meters tall and looked vaguely like a small armored spaceship sitting on a tripod of thick legs. Its helmet looked big enough to contain three human heads, side by side. 12

The Idirans looked at things differently. To them a ship name ought to reflect the serious nature of its purpose, duties and resolute use. 15

His huge head, saddle-shaped when seen from directly in front, with the two front eyes clear and unblinking near the edges, loomed over the Changer 16

Six years probably didn't feel like very long at all to a species that was virtually immortal 20

The medjel were the companion species of the Idirans. It ws a complicated sort of social symbiosis which had kept the exosocio faculties of many a university in research funds over the millenia that the Idiran civilisation had been part of the galactic community 23

The Idirans themselves had evolved on their planet Idir as the top monster from a whole planetful of monsters 23

They were generally reckoned to be about two thirds as intelligent as the average humanoid (whatever that was), which made them about two or three times dimmer than a normal Idiran. Still, they were good if unimaginative soldiers, and there were plenty of them; something like ten or twelve for each Idiran. Forty thousand years of breeding had made them loyal down to the chromosome level. 23

The Idirans never were any threat to you. They still wouldn't be, if you stopped fighting them. Did life in your great Utopia really get so boring you needed a war? 25

For what the Idirans regarded as essentially an animal (their word for humanoids was best translated as "biomaton"), only the behavior of devotion was required; his heart and mind were of no consequence. ... Whoever heard of a mortal body having an immortal soul? 33

Maybe the Idirans would have a tougher jko than they expected. They were the natural warriors, they had the experience and the guts, and their whole society was geared for continual conflict. But the Culture, that seemingly disunited, anarchic, hedonistic, decadent méange of more or less human species, forever hiving off or absorbing different groups of people, had fought for almost four years without showing any sign of giving up or even coming to a compromise 34

But the Idirans relied on themselves, not on their machines, and so they were still part of life. To him, that made all the difference. 172

Balveda wouldn't have understood, but there were Idirans and Idirans. Xoralundra was a friend, and a kind and humane officer— he 352 supposed the old Querl would be considered a moderate—and Horza knew others in the military and diplomatic missions whom he liked. But there were Idirans who were real fanatics, who despised all other species 351-352

*Oh, a savage and noble species, justifiably proud of themselves, and refusing to alter their genetic code, not far wrong in claiming perfection already. What they must feel for the swarming biped tribes of humankind!* 368

*We are nothing to them: mere biotomatons, and the most terrible example of the type. The Culture must seem like some fiendish amalgam of everything the Idirans have ever found repugnant* 368

"His poor slave soul is at rest, then," Xoxarle boomed. "His tribe can ask for no more." 411

It is how you are made; you must all strive to claw your way over the backs of your fellow humans during the short time you are permitted in the universe, breeding when you can, so that the strongest strains survive and the weakest die 412

While these squirming, soft-bodied worms scratched their pulpy skin and tried to work out where the Mind was? A warrior could do no such thing; he had come too far, seen too many die... 427

He tried not to call out, not because he thought there was anyone to hear and be warned, but because all his life, from when he had first got to his feet by himself, he had been taught to suffer in silence. He did try; he could remember his nest-Querl and his mother-parent teaching him not to cry out, and it was shaming to disobey them, but sometimes it got too much. 429

You obviously know the shame we attach to prosthetics, even if they are the result of battle wounds 432

Xoxarle seemed to have hoped some pan-human compassion would make Horza stop and save her, and so give the Idiran a few precious extra moments to make his escape; but the Idiran had made the same mistake about Horza that his whole species had made about the Culture. They were not that soft after all; humans could be just as hard and determined and merciless as any Idiran, given the right encouragement.... 485 SHE'S WRONG, HE SAVER HER

It was clear to them from the start that their jihad to "calm, integrate and instruct" these other species and bring the under the direct eye of their God had to continue and expand, or be meaningless 501
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Non-sapient deemed creatures\|Non-sapient deemed creatures]]

a blinded rogothuyr—its four paws encrusted with precious metals, its snout encased in a platinum muzzle and its eyes replaced by emeralds—padded like a lithe nightmare in pure white. The animal's giant head swept from side to side as it used its ultrasonic sense to map out its surroundings 209

With the exception of the seas—which still contained fish, but no longer any mammals—the only things which moved on Schar's 336 World were a few hundred species of small insects, slow spreading lichen on rocks near the equator, and the glaciers. The humanoids' war, or the ice age, had wiped everything else out. 335-336
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Sublimed species\|Sublimed species]]

the Dra'Azon are barely aware there's a war going on. They don't really give a damn about individuals. They recognise death and decay, but not hope or faith. 345

#### About warfare, extinction, worth of life etc.

It's a Planet of the Dead; did the natives eventually do it to themselves?"
"With biological weapons, not nukes, to the last humanoid, eleven thousand years ago" 96

If you were a pure-energy superspecies ong retored from the normal, matter-based life of the galaxy, and your conceit was to cordon off and preserve the odd planet or two you thought might serve as a fitting monument to death and futility, Schar's World with its short and sordid history sounded like the sort of place you'd put pretty near the top of your list 96

In 122 and 123, a scene that showcases the little worth that life has outside the Culture.

I'm going to cut that stupid little bastard's tongue out, that's what I'm going to do. A tattooed tongue should be worth something, 127 shouldn't it? Little bastard owed me money anyway 126-127

he could see people on it: thin dark people, dressed in rags, gathered round tents and fires or walking between them. 155

"People! Those are people! They must be in AG harnesses! We're going to go right through them!" 272

It was all going. All of it. The wreck of the *Olmedreca*, the tabular berg it had collided with, the wreck of the *CAT*'s suffle, Mipp's body, Lenipobra's, whatever was left of Fwi-Song's corpse, Mr. First's... the living bodies of the other Eaters—if they hadn't been rescued, or had refused... the Damage game arena, the docks and Kraiklyn's dead body, the hovercraft... animals and fishes, birds, germs, all of it: everything flash-burned or flash-frozen, suddenly weightless, spinning into space, going, dying. 284

The whole display that was the Orbital's destruction was, for all its humanely perceivable grandeur, quite wasted on the animal eye. A spectacle for the machines, thought Horza; that was all it was. A sideshow for the damn machines. 285
