---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/2-the-player-of-games/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

*Sharp Blue* was a game-player's secretion, a product of standard genofixed Culture glands sitting in Gurgeh's lower skull, beneath the ancient, animal-evolved lower reaches of his brain. The panoply of internally manufactured drugs the vast majority of Culture individuals were capable of choosing from comprised up to three hundred different compounds of varying degrees of popularity and sophistication; *Sharp Blue* was one of the least used because it brought no direct pleasure and required considerable concentration to produce. 7

the Culture's real cities were its great ships, the General Systems vehicles. Orbitals were its rustic hinterland, where people liked to spread themselves out with plenty of elbow room 49

Hafflis was unusual in having had seven children; normally people bore one and fathered one. The Culture frowned on such profligacy, but Hafflis just liked being pregnant. He was in a male stage at the moment, however, having changed a few years earlier 53

Where nothing could be authenticated, blackmail became both pointless and impossible; in a society like the Culture, where next to nothing was forbidden, and both money and individual power had virtually ceased to exist, it was doubly irrelevant 69

The Culture had theoretical total freedom of information; the catch was that consciousness was private, and information held in a Mind—as opposed to an unconscious system, like the Hub's memory-banks—was regarded as part of the Mind's being, and so as sacrosanct as the contents of a human brain; a Mind could hold any set of facts and opinions it wanted without having to tell anybody what it knew or thought, or why 79

the Culture would lose by emulating those we despire; invaders, occupiers, hegemonists 97

Marain, the Culture's quintessentially wonderful language (so the Culture will tell you), has, as any schoolkid knows, one personal pronoun to cover females, males, in-betweens, neuters, children, drones, Minds, other sentient machines, and every life-form capable of scraping together anything remotely resembling a nervous system and the rudiments of language (or a good excuse for not having either) 121

in the archetypal language-as-a-moral-weapon-and-proud-of-it, the message is that it's brains 122 that matter, kids; gonads are hardly worth making a distinction over 121-122

But what of you, O unlucky, possibly brutish, probably ephemeral and undoubtedly disadvantaged citizen of some unCultured society, especially those unfairly (and the Azadians would say under-) endowed with only the mean number of genders?!
How shall we refer to the triumvirate of Azadian sexes without resorting to funny-looking alien terms or gratingly awkward phrases-not-words?
...Rest at ease; I have chosen to use the natural and obvious pronouns for male and female, and to represent the intermediates—or apices—with whatever pronominal term best indicates their place in their society, relative to the existing sexual power-balance of yours. In other words, the precise translation depends on whether your own civilization (for let us err on the side of terminological generosity) is male or female dominated. 122

You didn't see the 'casts before you got here. They were saying you were *the* best player in the whole Culture and you were some sort of decadent slob, a hedonist who'd never worked a day in your life, that you were arrogant and totally convinced you were going to win the game, that you had all sorts of new glands sewn into your body, that you'd fucked your mother, men... animals for all I know, that you were half computer... 233

Flere-Imsaho was always a littler dubious about trying to be precise about human behavior, but it had been briefed that when Culture people didn't speak Marain for a long time and did speak another language, they were liable to change; they acted differently, they started to think in that other language, they lost the carefully balanced interpretative structure of the Culture language, left its subtle shifts of cadence, tone and rhythm behind for, in virtually every case, something much cruder. 311

The ancient drone sounded hackneyed rather than wise or even friendly, and the people on the screen looked soft and stupid. Amalk-ney showed him Ikroh, and Gurgeh found himself angered at the fact that people came and stayed there every now and again. Who did they think they were? 313

Gurgeh sees uniforms for the first time in 143 and feels weird. In page 238 Za lies about having his glands removed, although he never did because he wasn't Culture to begin with. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Contact and Special Circumstances\|Contact and Special Circumstances]]

a bunch of gung-ho do-gooders searching for barbarians to teach 25

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Minds, Drones and other AI\|Minds, Drones and other AI]]

There were dozens of drones in the room too, some playing, some watching, some talking to humans, a few in the formal, lattice-like arrangements which meant they were communicating by transceiver 8

The little drone annoyed and amused him in almost equal parts. It was rude, insulting and frequently infuriating, but it made such a refreshing change from the awful politeness of most people 10

The elderly frone was a meter and a half tall and over half a meter wide and deep, its plain casing matte with the accumulated wear of millennia 10 

As with all sentient Culture constructs, its precise character had not been fully mapped out before its construction, but allowed to develop as the drone's mind was put together 15

Mawhrin-Skel was one such rogue drone. Its personality—it had been decided—wasn't right for Contact, not even for Special Circumstances. It was unstable, belligerent and insensitive. (And those were only the grounds it had chosen to tell people it had failed on.) It had been given the choice of radical personality alteration, in which it would have had little or no say in its own eventual character, or a life outside Contact, with its personality intact but its weapons and its more complex communications and sensory systems removed to bring it down to something nearer the level of a standard drone 15

Meatbrain 15

resemble fatigued, path-polished geriatrics like you, who haven't even got the human decency to die when they're obsolete. You're a waste of matter, Amalk-ney 16

In page 14, Mawhrin-Skel dissects a little bird. It's kind of done for Special Circumstances reasons (to assert his cover)

the machine came close to him and said quietly, as it slowly stripped the petals from the drying blossom, "Want me to tell you your heart rate, skin receptivity level, pheromone signature, neuron function-state...)" 52

No machine had ever used force on him. It was unheard of. He tried to rise again, a shout of anger and frustration forming in his throat 68 Generally in page 68 and 69 Gurgeh is threatened by the drone. 

"Don't you understand what they've done to me, *man*? ... I've been castrated, spayed, paralyzed! How you feel now; helpless, knowing the limbs are there but unable to make them work! Like that, but knowing that they *aren't* there! Can you understand that? Can you? Did you know that in our history people used to lose whole limbs, forever?" 70

"Do you remember seeing cripples, from before arms and legs just grew back? Back then, humans lost limbs—blown off or cut off or amputated—but still thought they had them, still thought they could feel them; 'ghost limbs' they called them. 71 Those unreal arms and legs could itch and they could ache but they could not be used; can you imagine? Can you imagine *that*, Culture man with your genofixed regrowth and your overdesigned heart and your doctored glands and clot-filtered brain and flawless teeth and perfect immune system? *Can you?*" 70-71

I've never killed a human before. It's possible I 72 might have been given the chance, somewhere, some time, if I'd been allowed to join SC... but I'd settle for causing a suicide. 71-72

They call it compassion to draw my talons and remove my eyes and cast me adrift in a paradise made for others; I call it torture. It's obscene, Gurgeh, it's barbaris, *diabolic*; recognise that old word? 74

I want to fight, Gurgeh; that's what I was designed for; to use skill and cunning and *force* to win battles for our dear, beloved Culture 107

That machine was civilianized because it was dangerous and refused to undergo reconstruction therapy 113

"You opinionated box of junk" 191

"Machine. ... Go fuck yourself."

What difference does it make whether a mind's made up of enormous, squidgy, animal cells working at the speed of sound (in air!), or from a glittering nanofoam of reflectors and patterns of holographic coherence, at lightspeed? ... Each is a machine, each is an organism, each fulfills the same task. 292
#### About Non Pan-Human Species
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Azadians\|Azadians]]

As a rule, such archaic forms of authority wither long before the relevant species drags itself off the home planet, let alone cracks the lightspeed problem, which of course one has to do, to rule effectively over any worthwhile volume 90

The dominant species is humanoid, but, very unusually—and certain analyses claim that this too has been a factor in the survival of the empire as a social system—it is composed of three sexes 90

"The one in the middle is the dominant sex."
Gurgeh had to think about this. "The what?" 91

The intermediate—or apex—sex you see standing in the middle there controls the society and the empire. Generally, the males are used as soldiers and the females as posessions. Of course, it's a little more complicated than that, but you get the idea?" 91

"I take it this means these people can't chanfe sex."
"Correct. Genetechnologically, it's been within their grasp for hundreds of years, but it's forbidden. Illegal, if you remember what that means." 91

"The players wager tortures and mutilations against each other."
"You mean, if you lose a game... you have... these things done to you?"
Exactly. One might bet, say, the loss of a finger against aggravated male-to-apex rectal rape."
Gurgeh looked levelly at the machine for a few seconds, then said slowly, nodding, "Well... that *is* barbaric." 98

A program of eugenic manipulation has lowered the average male and female intelligence; selective birth control sterilization, area starvation, mass deportation and racially based taxation systems produced the equivalent of genocide, with the result that almost 99 everybody on the home planet is the same color and build 98-99

Be careful now; that is how they term the species they subjugate; animals. Of course they are animals, just as you are, just as I am a machine. But they are fully conscious, and they have a society at least as complicated as our own; more so, in some ways 100

...so you'd be well advised to stay celibate; they'll find it difficult enough taking a male seriously even if you do look bizarre to them, but if you tried to form any sexual relationships they'd almost certainly take it as a gross insult 141

The thing to remember ... is that their society is based on *ownership*. Everything that you see and touch, everything you come into contact with, will *belong* to somebody or to an institution; it will be theirs, they will own it. In the same way, everyone you meet will be conscious of both their position in society and their relationship to others around them.
It is especially important to remember that the ownership of humans is possible too; not in terms of actual slavery, which they are proud to have abolished, but in the sense that, according to which sex and class one belongs to, one may be partially owned by another or others by having to sell one's labor or talents to somebody with the means to buy them. In the case of males, they give themselves most totally when they become soldiers; the personnel in their armed forces are like slaves, with little personal freedom, and under threat of death if they disobey. Females sell their bodies, usually, entering into the legal contract of 'marriage' to Intermediates, who then pay them for their sexual favors by— 142

Gurgeh knew enough about the way the Empire worked to realize that it wouldn't let such things happen; its people knew what duties and orders meant, and they took their responsibilities seriously, or, if they didn't, they suffered for it.
They did as they were told; they had discipline. 145

Apart from the obvious physical differences, the Azadians all seemed very compact and hard and determined compared to Culture people; more energetic and even—if he was going to be critical—neurotic. The apices were, anyway. From the little he saw of the males, they seemed somehow duller, less fraught and more stolid as well as being physically bulkier, while the females appeared to be quieter—somehow deeper—and more delicate-looking 150

What do you think of the Empire? Isn't it wonderful? Isn't it? I mean, vicious but sexy, right? 162

And watch the women—or men, or both, or whatever you're into. You could get into some very nasty situations if you aren't careful. Even if you mean to stay celibate you might find some of them—women especially—just can't wait to see what's between your legs. And they take that sort of stuff ri-*diculously* seriously. You want any body-games; tell me. I've got contacts; I can set it up nice and discreet. 163

"You'll end up impressed; you'll appreciate its savage beauty. No; I'm serious. You will. You'll probably end up wanting to stay. Oh, and don't pay any attention to that dingbat drone they've sent to nursemaid you. They're all the same, those machines; want everything to be like the Culture; peace and love and all that same bland crap. They haven't got the"—Za belched—"the sensuality to appreciate the"—he belched again—"Empire. Believe me. Ignore the machine." 169

"It is simply made—it is only that it is more difficult for either—" The woman broke off and brought her head up with a sudden, startling look. "—for either of the *lesser* sexes to learn, because all the great colleges must take only apex scholars." She looked back down again. "Of course, this is to prevent the distraction of those who study." 172

I am told... that I'm very lucky. I suppose I must be. But then, I know I am, for my father has chosen me a fine master and husband, and even if I do not succeed in the game, I shall marry well. What more can a woman ask for, sir? 174

And so varied, even in this sickly, sea-green tunnel light. So many different types of people mixed in with the Azadians he was becoming used to seeing; a few aliens that looked vaguely familiar from his memory of pan-human types, but mostly quite wildly different; he lost count of the variations in limbs, height, bulk, physiognomy and sensory apparatus he was confronted with during that short walk. 194

On the small, roughly circular stage below, some dwarfish alien—only vaguely pan-human—was wrestling, or perhaps copulating, with an Azadian female in a quivering tub full of gently steaming red mud, all seemingly held in a low-G field. The spectators shouted and clapped and threw drinks. 195 This fight gets worse and worse in 197 and 198

The acts went on; sex acts, mostly. Acts which, outside the Hole, Gurgeh was told by Za and two of the Azadian females (Inclate and At-sen, sitting on either side of him), would mean death for both participants; death by radiation or death by chemicals. 198

This was someone used to sentencing his fellow creatures to execution, disfigurement, pain and prison; an apex who dealt in torture and mutilation and the power to command their use and even that of death itself to preserve the Empire and its values 249

Even if he did win, how could he let another being be mutilted? If Bermoiya lost, it would be the end of him; career, family, everything. The Empire did not allow the regeneration or replacement of any wager-lost body parts; the judge's loss would be permanent and possibly fatal; suicide was not unknown in such cases. 251

now he *knew* why the Empire had survived because of the game; Azad itself simply produced an insatiable desire for more victories, more power, more territory, more dominance... 252

The person was curled up under tattered blankets, head on a filthy sack. He couldn't tell what sex it was; the rags offered no clue. ... "That's just one of the loafers Pequil was talking about; somebody shifted off the land. He's been drinking; that's part of the smell. The rest is him." 256

"He's dying. Probably been in a fight. The police don't come here too often,. And 257 nobody's likely to call for medical aid; he's obviously been robbed, so they'd have to pay for the treatment themselves." 256-257

under the law females are simply possessions. The penalty for murdering a woman is a year's hard labor, for an apex. A female who kills an apex is tortured to death over a period of days. 257

a few hundred dark-skinned babies are still born each year, as the genes work themselves out. They're supposed to be strangled and their bodies presented to the Eugenics Council for a bounty, but a few people risk death and bring them up, blanching their skins as they grow older. If anybody thought you were one, especially in a disciple's cloak, they'd skin you alive. 259

Gurgeh saw many cripples. They sat on street corners, selling trinkets, playing music on scratchy, squeaky instruments, or just begging. Some were blind, some had no arms, some had no legs. Gurgeh looked at the damaged people and felt dizzy; the gritty surface of the street beneath him seemed to tip and heave 259

kiosks vending tickets for executions, amputations, tortures and staged rapes—mostly lost Azad body-bets 259

The drone told him the trio was almost certainly mad, and had nobody to pay for their stay in mental hospital, so they'd been de-citizenized and sold to the apex. They watched the pathetic, bedraggled creatures trying to climb lampposts or form a pyramid for a while 260

one in ten of the people he passed on the street would be treated for mental illness at some point in their lives. The figure was higher for males than for apices, and higher for females than either. The same applied to the rates of suicide, which was illegal. 260

Gurgeh gets attacked, filmed etc in the Hole in pages 203, 204, , 205, , 206, 207, 208, 209. Generally, chaos, snuff videos, etc. He bets mutilation in 250.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Non-sapient deemed creatures\|Non-sapient deemed creatures]]

One of the people had brough a pet; a proto-sentient Styglian enumerator which padded round the room, counting under its slightly fishy breath. The slim, three-limbed animal, blond-haired and waist-high, with no discernible head but lots of meaningful bulges, started counting people 28

they tethered their tall, panting mounts in the shade at the side of the house, where the drones gave them water 34

A proportion of Azad game-pieces were biotechs: sculpted artifacts of genetically engineered cells which changed character from the moment they were first unwrapped and placed on the board; part vegetable, part animal, they indicated their values and abilities by color, shape and size 128

Preceding the Emperor was a variety of large animals, four- and six-legged, variouslu colored, collared and muzzled, and held on the end of emerald- and ruby-chained leads by fat, almost naked males whose oiled skins glowed like frosted gold in the ballroom lights 165

Females dressed in uniforms ordered males and apices around. ... Some of the apices were dressed in male clothes, some in female dress. Apices were made to eat their own or somebody else's excreta, or drink their urine. 263

The final scene the man watched featured a psychotic male criminal previously injected with massive doses of sex hormones and hallucinogens, a knife, and a woman described as an enemy of the state, who was pregnant, and just before term 264 

In a sense it even recognises the 'sanctity' of the body... but only to violate it. Once again, Gurgeh, it all boils down to ownership, possession; about taking and *having* 266

The military broadcasts showed scenes of alien executions and tortures. Some showed the buildings and artworks of the recalcitrant or rebellious species being blown up or burned; things only very rarely shown on the standard news-channels if for no other reason than that all the aliens were depicted as a matter of course as being uncivilized monsters, docile simpletons or greedy and treacherous subhumans, all categories incapable of producing high art and genuine civilization. 273

It is discovered and hyper-stressed thast the empure channels contain role-reversal bdsm in pages 262 and 263, very important for the fear of irrationality. In page 264, more secret channels except this one shows torture. In pages 280 and 281, they try to convince gurgeh to drop out in exchange for sexually controlling some people for a while (absolute hedonism) and they talk about instruments made from body parts. 

Hamin found the Culture's sexual mores even more fascinating. He was at once delighted and outraged that the culture regarded homosexuality, incest, sex-changing, hermaphrodicy and sexual characteristic alteration as just something else people did, like going on a cruise or changing their hairstyle. 285

The Empire *wanted* to survive; it was like an animal, a massive, powerful body that would only let certain cells or viruses survive within it and as a matter of course killed off any and all others, automatically and unthinkingly 286

He found the whole hunt somewhat distasteful, but could not deny that the infectious excitement of the Azadians had some effect on him 325

Your blind, insipid morality can't even account for your own success here, and you treat this battlefield like some filthy dance. It is there to be fought and struggled against, and you've attempted to seduce it. You've 358 perverted it; replaced our holy witnessing with your own foul pornography... you've soiled it... *male*. 357-358

The meek, the pathetic, the frightened and cowed... they can only last so long,no matter how terrible and awesome the machines they crawl around within 358
#### About Instinct (Gurgeh's)

There: that red-black scent of roasted meat; blood-quickening, salivatory; tempting and vaguely disagreeable at the same time as separate parts of his brain assessed the odor. The animal root smelled fuel; protein-rich food; the mid-brain trunk registered dead, incinerated cells... while the canopy of forebrain ignored both signals, because it knew his belly was full, and the roast meat cultivated 7

"But you see? If somebody wanted a house like this they'd already have had one built; if they wanted anything in the house ... they'd have ordered it; they'd have it. With no money, no possessions, a large part of the enjoyment the people who invented this game experienced when they played it just... disappears."
"You call enjoyment to lose your house, your titles, your estates; your children maybe; to be expected to walk out onto the balcony with a gun and blow your brains out? That's enjoyment? We're well free of that. You want something you can't have, Gurgeh. You enjoy your life in the Culture, but it can't provide you with sufficient threats; the true gambler needs the excitement of potential loss, even ruin, to feel wholly alive." 23

"I... *exult* when I win. It's better than love, it's better than sex or any glanding; it's the only instant when I feel... ... ...real, ... Me. The rest of the time... I feel a bit like that little ex-Special Circumstances drone, Mawhrin-Skel; as though I've had some sort of... birthright taken from me."24

"There's something very... I don't know; primitive, perhaps, about you, Gurgeh. You've never changed sex, have you?" He shook his head. "Or slept with a man?" Another shake. "I thought so," Yay said. "You're strange, Gurgeh." She drained her glass.
"Because I don't find men attrative?"
"Yes, *you're* a man!" She laughed.
"Should I be attracted to myself, then?" 28

"Neither of us were fully planned, Jernau Gurgeh; your genes determined you and your mother's genofixing made certain you would not be a cripple or mentally subnormal. The rest is chance" 63

"If," he said slowly, "anything goes wrong, if you're found out—I'm dead. I'll kill myself. Brain death; complete and utter. No remains." 64

As an ultimate challenge, it excited and appalled him in equal measure; he felt instinctively, almost sexually drawn to it, even now, knowing so little... 101

There were at least ten of his former lovers among the crowd squeezed round the table. He wondered fuzzily what the significance might be that out of that ten, six had chosen to change sex and become—and remain—men over the past few years 115

#### About Terraforming

Stick up a range or two, carve out a couple of lakes... but I'm talking about the overall plan; real radical stuff. All we're doing is building just another next-door Plate. Could be one of a million anywhere in the galaxy. What's the point of that? 20

How about, ... magnetic fields under the base material and magnetized islands floating over oceans? No *ordinary* land at all; just great floating lumps of rock with streams and lakes and vegetation and a few intrepid people; doesn't that sound more exciting? 21