---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/3-use-of-weapons/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

surrounded by an ever-changing ring of friends, admirers and animals—nebula to her attractive focus 17

'Another thing they do, these people, another way they deal in life rather than death, is they offer leaders of certain societies below a certain technological level the one thing all the wealth and power those leaders command cannot buy them; a cure for death. A return to youth.' 34

'You see, these people; these nice kind people who are so soft and prefer to deal in life... when somebody goes back on a deal with them, even when somebody kills after they've said they wouldn't, they still don't like to kill in return. They'd rather use their magic and their precious compassion to do the next best thing. And so people disappear. 35

'Thirty days with a crew of viral masochists and a ship that thinks it's a cuddly toy.' 63

It'll take about two hundred days or so to grow you a new body. They want me to ask you; do you want to sleep through the whole thing, or do you want to stay awake as normal...or anything in between? 139

'To the Culture,' ... ''To its lack of respect for all things majestic.' 282

He didn't think he had quite believed what he had heard about the Culture's altered physiology until then. He hadn't accepted that they had changed themselves so. He had not believed that they really had chosen to extend such moments of pleasure, let alone breed into themselves all the multifarious drug glands that could enhance almost any experience (not least sex). 283

Their machines could do everything else much better than they could; no sense in breeding super-humans for strength or intelligence, when their drones and Minds were so much more matter- and energy-efficient at both. But pleasure... well, that was a different matter 283

in Special Circumstances we deal in the moral equivalent of black holes, where the normal laws—the rules of right and wrong that people imagine apply everywhere else in the universe—break down; beyond those metaphysical event-horizons, there exist...special circumstances 285

Zakalwe explains the fairytale of the culture in page 33. The population of the xXenophobe have decided it's trendy to have a cold in page 60. In 115, Sma doesn't know what inflation is. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Minds, Drones and other AI\|Minds, Drones and other AI]]

Sma... it isn't real. It's a stand-in; electronic, mechanical, electro-chemical, chemical; a machine, a Mind-controlled machine, not alive in itself. Not a clone or... 23

I don't want the stand-in screwing anybody.' 
'Okay,' the drone said as they went towards the partying people. 'It is, after all, in a sense, your body.' 26

'Meatfucker!' 47

'Slag; components; motherjunk' 47

how in the name of chaos did a lump of meat outwit and destroy a *knife missile*? 49

The Minds did not assume such distinctions; to them, there was no cut-off between the two. Tactics cohered into strategy, strategy disintegrated into tactics, in the sliding scale of their dialectical moral algebra. It was all more than they ever expected the mammal brain to cope with 56

It was warm, had four limbs arranged conventionally, smelled attractive and wasn't any sort of animal she'd ever seen before; it had large ears on a large head, and as she held it, it opened its huge eyes and looked at her. 'That's the ship,' the man who'd handed her the animal said 61

'Listen, *Xenophobe—*'
'Xeny.'
'Xeny; you are a million-tonne starship; a Torturer class Rapid Offensive Unit. Even—'
'But I'm demilitarised!'
'Even without your principal armament, I bet you could waste planets if you wanted to—'
'Aw, come on; any silly GCU can do *that*!'
'So what is all this shit for?' She shook the furry little remote drone, quite hard. Its teeth chattered. 
'It's for a laugh!' it cried. 'Sma; don't you appreciate a joke?' 62

The ship prepared a feast, and put as many human-brain-chemistry-altering chemicals into the various dishes and drinks as was normally regarded proper without attaching a specific sanity warning to each bowl, plate, jug or glass 67

'They also,' Skaffen-Amtiskaw said, 'refuse to aknowledge machine sentience fully; they exploit proto-conscious computers and claim only human subjective experience has any intrinsic value; carbon fascists.' 111

I don't want Skaffen-Amiskaw or anything else that thinks it can think for itself 147 

Now; my question to you is this; what is the difference? The brain of each being works in exactly the same way as the other; they will respond to stimuli with a greater correspondence than one finds even between monozygotic twins; but how can one still choose to call one a conscious entity, and the other merely a machine? 279

I have never been able to see what virtue there could be in something that was eighty per cent water 148
#### About Types of Pan-Human

At least, she thought, they're fairly Standard. She had never liked being altered to impersonate the natives 91

I'm here with a gang of homosexual priests who think I'm going to solve all their military problems 328
##### About body modifications regardless of culture

the false eye—which was in fact a light micro-pistol 9

The surgeons had given him new eyes five years ago, but sixty years of short-sightedness had left him with an ingrained reaction to reach for glasses which were not there 30

He smiled thinly, pleased with himself. His heart—the heart of an athletic young anarchist woman up until eleven years ago—was beating quickly, but not worryingly so 31

There was a danger that would rupture his eardrums (he thought, swallowing), but he could always take a new pair from a healthy dissident. Maybe he wouldn't even have to do that; the rumour was that the retro-aging might include the possibility of body-parts regrowing 31

he was old-fashioned enough to wear his age rather than try to disguise it 237

The Injury Party with descriptions in pages 216, 217 and 223 (IMPORTANT). 
##### About sexism, women, femininity

the young girl (princess, indeed!) who was—technically, at least, not that that precluded other, more productive, even lucrative, relationships in the future—his ward 55

Sex was an infringement, an attack, an invasion; there was no other way he could see it; every act, however magical aand intensely enjoyed, and however willingly conducted, seemed to carry a harmonic of rapacity. He took her, and however much she gained in provoked pleasure and in his own increasing love, she was still the one that suffered the act 120

Darckense's rape (?) in page 201
#### About Non Pan-Human Species

to sit, to be made less animal by that evolutionarily uncalled-for posture, signified the ability to use 251
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Non-sapient deemed creatures\|Non-sapient deemed creatures]]

Two of the hralzs at her feet leapt up, yelping, fore-paws attempting to find purchase on the smooth lap of her formal gown, their glistening snouts raised to the flower. She bent, tapping both animals gently on the nose with the bloom, making them bounce down to the floor again, sneezing and shaking their heads 17

'Gainly, Gainly, I know, I know,' ... 'I wanted to be here to see your babies born, but I can't...' ... 'What am I to do, Gainly? I could have you put to sleep until I come back, and you'd never know... but all your friends would miss you.'
'Have them all put to sleep,' the drone suggested. 26

#### About warfare, extinction, worth of life etc.

The much and dirt, the king with fleas. For theft, mutilation; for the wrong thoughts, death. An infant mortality rate as astronomical as the life-expectancy was minute, and the whole grisly, working package wrapped in a skein of wealth and advantage designed to maintain the dark dominion of the knowing over the ignorant (and the worst of it was the pattern; the repetition; the twisted variations of the same depraved theme in so many different places) 56

The Dehewwoff system of punishing by disease; graded capital punishment; the more serious the crime the more serious the disease the culprit is infected with. For minor crimes a mere fever, loss of livelihood and medical expenses; for more damaging misdeeds a bout of something lasting perhaps months, with pain and a long convalescence, bills and no sympathy, sometimes marks to show later on. For really ghastly crimes, infection with diseases rarely survived; near certain death but possible divine intervention and miracle cure. Of course, the lower one's class, the mopre virulent one's punishment, to allow for the hardier constitutions of the toliers 181

Those who did not choose to do crew duty would be drugged on planet, taken into space unconscious, frozen out there, and then wake up on another planet.
This seemed undignified, to him. To be treated so was to become cargo 346

Hey, come on; nobody's going back, are they? Nobody on here's ever going back home. Half the people we know are probably dead already, and the ones that aren't will be, by the time we get where we're going. So if we can't ever see the people we used to know again, and probably never see home again, it has to be something pretty damn important and pretty damn bad, pretty damn *evil* to make a body up and leave like that. We all *got* to be running from something, whether it's something we did or something we had done to us 351

The value of a woman's life is considered in page 353 (little blue cube stuff)
#### About Instinct (Zakalwe's?)

'You paid me off very handsomely the last time. Lots of money and a new body. What more can a chap ask for? 84

these eatbrained loonies have thermonukes. He's crazy! 93

He must have cracked the gene-coding in his own cells; the steady-state retroageing that *we gave him*; he's been selling it! For money and favours, trying to get these monomaniac dictators to behave like nice people 93

And in two hundred days he would have a new body. And (*And this?...I'm sorry. Still fresh, that one?*)
...the wound over his heart would be gone forever, and the heart beneath his chest would not be the same one 141

You think I'm wrong to have my age stabilised; even the chance of immortality is... wrong, to you. Okay; I can see that. In your society, the way you live your lives, of course it is. You have your three-fifty, four hundred years, and know you'll get right to the end of them; die with your boots off. For me... that won't work. I don't have that certainty. I enjoy the perspective from the edge, Sma; I like to feel that up-draft on my face. So sooner or later I'll die; violently, probably. ... So; your stasis is your society, and mine... is my age. But we are both assured of death. 144

Zakalwe's horrible crater activities mostly in pages 192 and 193.
#### About Terraforming

the people gaining the upper hand at the moment want to pursue aggressive terraforming policies... 111

it's ecologically insensitive, to put it mildly. These people—they call themselves the Humanists—also want a sliding scale of sentient rights which will have the effect of letting them take over whatever intelligently inhabited worlds they're millitarily able to 111

They want other people to be like them, Cheradenine. They don't terraform, so they don't want others to either. There are arguments for it as well, you know; increasing species iversity often seems more important to people that preserving a wilderness, even without the provision of extra living space. 264

a hundred kilometres deep in the vast perpetual storm that was the mighty planet's atmosphere. An atmosphere that would be plundered, mined, stripped and altered by the Humanists, if they had their way 296