---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/4-excession/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

She was still convinced that the ship monitored her closely enough to know exactly how well she was—and she was anyway always in perfect health 5

There were ways of tapping directly into their minds, ways that were virtually never used with humans an whose use even with animals was generally frowned upon in proportion to the creature's intelligence 10

Genar-Hofoen watched the expression form on his uncle's face and wondered how comprehensive was the duplication of his uncle's personality now encoded—living, if you wanted to look at it that way—in the module's AI core. 63

Practically the only form of private property the Culture recognised was thought, and memory 66

Thanks to that taboo, everybody in the Culture could keep secrets to themselves and hatch little schemes and plots to their heart's content. The trouble was that while in humans this sort of behaviour tended to manifest itself in practical jokes, petty jealousies, silly misunderstandings and instances of tragically unrequited love, with Minds it occasionally meant they forgot to tell everybody else about finding entire stellar civilisations, or took it upon themselves to try to alter the course of a developed culture everybody already did know about 66

The *Grey Area*. The ship that did what the other ships both deplored and despised; actually looked into the minds of other people, using its Electro Magnetic Effectors—in a sense the very, very distant descendants of electronic countermeasures equipment from your average stage three civilization, and the most sophisticated, powerful but also precisely controllable weaponry the average Culture ship posessed—to burrow into the grisly cellular substrate of an animal consciousness and try to make sense of what 70 it found there for its own—usually vengeful—purposes. A pariah craft; the one the other Minds called *Meatfucker* because of its revolting hobby (though not, as it were, to its face) 70-71

they were so insecure in their physical inheritance they had meddled with themselves in all sorts of ways; probably they thought hangovers were just annoying, rather than character-forming and so had, shortsightedly, dispensed with them 73

being descended from—as the fashions of the intervening times had ordained—people who had resembled birds, fish, dirigible bhalloons, snakes, small clouds of cohesive smoke and animated bushes. 
The tenor of the time had generally turned against such outlandishness and people had mostly returned to looking more like people over the last millennium, albeit assuredly pretty good-looking people 106

'This is the Interesting Times Gang we're talking about, I take it?' 124

All in all, entirely worth passing up the rather too obvious advances of his perfect woman (well, not it wasn't...except it was when your prfect woman was almost certainly a Special Circumstances agent altered to look like the creature of your fantasies and sent to look after you, keep you happy and safe, when what you actually wanted was a bit of variety, some excitement and some un-Culture-like danger; his perfect partner certainly *looked* like the very splendid Verlioef Schung, but she was even more positively not SC, not Contact, and probably not even Culture either. It was that desire for straneness, for apartness, for alienness they probably couldn't understand) 216

He was aware of something inside his head turning off the searing pain in his arm 224

three Orbitals—hoops, giant bracelets of living-space only a few thousand kilometres across but ten million kilometres in diameter—calmly gyrating in their own carefully aligned orbits and housing nearly seven billion sould. Some of those souls were far from human; one third of each of the system's Orbitals was given over to ecosystems designed for quite different creatures; gas-giant dwellers on one, methane atmospherians on another anbd high temperature silicon creatures on another 238

Terminals in the shape of rings, pens, earrings, brooches, articles of clothing 243—and the built in versions, neural laces 242-243

'But we're the *Peace* faction,' she protested for the fifth or sixth time. 'We're...we're like the true Culture, the way it used to be...' 291

Most people in the Culture changed sex at some point in their lives, though not all had children while they were female. Generally people eventually changed back to their congenital sex, but not always, and some people cycled back and forth between male and female all their lives, while some settled for an androgynous in-between state, finding there a comfortable equanimity 321

Life-long monogamy was not utterly unknown, but it was exceptionally unusual. A couple staying together for the duration of an offspring's entire childhood and adolescence was a moe common ocurrence, but still not the norm. The average Culture child was close to its mother and almost certainly knew who its father was (assuming it was not in effect a clone of its mother, or had in place of a father's genes surrogated material which the mother had effectively manufactured), but it would probably be closer to the aunts and yncles who lived in the same extended familial grouping 322

~That is a neural lace, it informed her. ~A more exquisite and economical method of torturing creatures such as yourself has yet to be invented 341

Personally Ulver vhad never had any time for this fashionable purist nonsense; she'd first decided she was going to live fully backed-up when she was eight. She supposed she ought to feel impressed that Genar-Hofoen was sticking to his principles in the face of imminent death—and she did feel a little admiration—but mostly she just thought he was being stupid 427

Silly hologram thing of GH's uncle in page 54. Explanation of Outside Context Problem in pages 71-72. They talk about mind construct abstracts again in pages 233 and 234. Talk on monogamy, sex, and all that stuff related to mutualling on 322, 323, 324. Some deaths and regrown bodies (where are they now style) in page 551.

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Minds, Drones and other AI\|Minds, Drones and other AI]]

The ship's avatar called itself Amorphia, which apparently meant something reasonably profound in a language Dajeil did not know and had never considered worth studying. Amorphia was a gaunt, pale, androgynous creature, almost skeletally thin and a full head taller than Dajeil, who was herself both slender and tall. For the last dozen or so years, the avatar had taken to dressing in all black, and it was in black leggings, black tunic and a short black jerkin that it appeared now, its cropped blonde hair covered by a similarly dark skull cap. 5

she did not respond in kind by asking after whatever might pass as the health of either a humanly formed but ship-controlled entity which functioned—as far as she knew—solely as the vessel's contact with her, or indeed the ship itself 5

The avatar Amorphia was deliberately formed to look mnot simply neither male nor female but as perfectly, artificially poised between maleness and femaleness as it was possible to be, and the ship had never made any pretence that its representative was other than completely its creature, with only the most cursory intellectual existence of its own 6

the ship's knowledge of the ecosystems was, in effect, total; the creatures belonged to the vessel, after all, whether you regarded them as passengers or pets 7

It knew this machine too; it was its twin. It was its closest sibling/friend/lover/comrade in all the great distributed, forever changing civilisation that was the Elench 22

The heat making its way through the drone's body dissipated slowly, leaving it alive but still crippled and incapable of movement or action 24

Unhappily, the processing power required for this sort of technical gee-whizzery meant that according to Culture convention the suit had to be sentient. Genar-Hofoen had insisted on a model with the intelligence fixed at the lower limit of the acceptable intellectual range, but it still meant that the suit literally had a mind of its own 31

~You would not believe what I am, commandant, but what I am talking about is a thing called genocide, and the proof thereof.
We did what had to be done!
~Thank you, we've just been through all that. Your self-justifications  have been noted.
I believed in what I did!
~I know. You had the residual decency to question it occasionally, but in the end you did indeed believe in what you were doing. That is not an excuse, but it is a point. 50

**When the mere animals concerned have orchestrated one of the most successful and total expungings of both a significant part of 53 their own species and every physical record regarding the act of genocide, one has remarkably little choice 52-53

Its original self had probably died in the process of escape; instead of its own body it now inhabited that of its twin, whose 92 violated, defected mind-state now raged helplessly within the core labelled 2/2.
The drone ... felt a kind of revulsion at the very idea of having a treacherous, perverted version of its twin locked inside its own mind. 92

The drone Churt Lyne had been a family friend for nearly a millenium and parts of its personality were supposed to date back to when they'd been programs in a house-systems computer nine thousand years earlier. It wasn't in the habit of pulling age on her like this and reminding her that she was a mere day-fly to its creakingly venerable antiquity, but it wasn't above doing so when it thought the situation demanded it, either 104

*Those animal pus-bags* 134

He found the whole idea of drone sex—even if it was entirely of the mind, with no physical component whatsoever—quite entirely bizarre 214

Look at those humans! How could such glacial slowness even be called *life*? An age could pass, virtual empires rise and fall in the time they took to open their mouths to utter some new inanity! 244

The ship's avatar looked pained for a moment 250

The ship was bored. It was also aware of a continuing undercurrent of fear; a real emotion that it was by turns annoyed at, ashamed of and indifferent to, according to its mood 272

It was a warship, after all. It was built, *designed* to glory in destruction, when it was considered appropriate. It found, as it was rightly and properly supposed to, an awful beauty in both the weaponry of war and the violence and devastation which that weaponry wasw capable of inflicting, and yet it knew that attractiveness stemmed from a kind of insecurity, a sort of childishness. It could see that—by some criteria—a warship, just by the perfectly articulated purity of its purpose, was the most beautiful single artifact the Culture was capable of producing, and at the same time understand the paucity of moral vision such a judsgement implied. To fully appreciate the beauty of a weapon was to admit to a king of shortsightedness close to blindness, to confess to a sort of stupidity 295

The ghastly danger was gigadeathcrime. Mass destruction. Utter horror. 296

The craft had a romantic, even sentimental streak ... and it saw itself now as being like the castellan of some fortified embassy in a teeming barbarian city, far from the civilised lands that were his home; a wise, thoughtful man, technically a warrior, but more of a thinker 297 the roleplaying continues all page and the two pages

The ship transmitted a copy of what in asn earlier age might have been called its soul to the other craft. It then experienced a strange sense of release and freedom while it completed its preparations for combat. Now it felt a strange, at once proud and yet humbling affinity with the warriors of all the species through every age who had bade their lives, their loves, their friends and relations goodbye, made their peace with themselves and with whatever imagined entities their superstitions demanded, and prepared to die in battle 333

Now, it recognised a kinship that crossed not just the ages, species or civilisations, but the arguably still greater gap between the fumblingly confused and dim awareness exhibited by the animal brain and the near-infinitely more extended, refined and integrated sentience of what most ancestor species were amusingly, quaintly pleased to call Artificial Intelligence 333

...Or was it just the thing it had chosen to believe was the right thing to do, when the other ships, the other Minds had persuaded it? What had its real motives been? Had it not just been flattered to be the object of such attention? Had it not always resented being passed over for certain small but prestrigious missions in the past, nursing a bitter resentment that it was not trusted because it was seen as being—what? A hard-liner? Too inclined to shoot first? Too cynical towards the soft ideologies of the meat-beings? 378

It couldn't! No! *NO*! Grief! Meat! Stop! Stop it! Let it go! Sweet nothingness, anything was better than this wracking, tearing uncertainty, any horror preferable to the wrenching dreadfulness boiling uncontrollably in its Mind 
Atrocity. Abomination. Gigadeathcrime. 379

Gravious is presented as a talking bird in page 4. It talks more in page 11 and is revealed to be a spy in 250. A soldier drone has a silly conversation with the excession in page 26. Henar-Hofoen and the suit argue in page 34, and the suit argues with the module in 40. The grey area gives someone fucked up genocide dreams in 49, and he explains himself in page 52-53. The Sleeper Service tableaus and generally being Stored explained in pages 80, 81, 83, 84. Sleeper service talks about what will happen after his death in 422. Ulver shares her senses with the ship in 425
#### About Types of Pan-Human

The Elench wanted to alter themelves, not others; they sought out the undiscovered not to change it but to be changed by it 87

The Elencher ideal was that somebody from a more stable society ... could meet the same Elencher—Rock, ship, drone or human—on successive occasions and never encounter the same entity twice. They would have changed between meetings just because in the interim they had encountered some other civilization and incorporated some different technology into their bodies or information into their minds. It was a search for the sort of pan-relevant truth that the Culture's monosophical approach was unlikely ever to throw up; it was a vocation, a mission, a calling 88

Slogans, signs, announcements, odours and personal greeters vied for attention, advertising emporia and venues. Stunning 'scapes and scenes played out in sensorium bubbles bulging out into the centre of the street, putting you instantly into bedrooms, feast-halls, arenae, harems, seaships, fair rides, space battles, states of temporary extasy; tempting, prompting, suggesting, offering, providing entrance, stimulating appetites, prompting desires; suggesting, propositioning, pandering 257

Genar-Hofoen was particularly pleased with his new suit. It was made of his own akin, genetically altered in various subtle ways, specially vat-grown and carefully tailored to his exact specifications 257
##### About sexism, women, femininity

Neatness to it, still. Women; penetration. He had lived for it. Now he/she would die, and Dajeil would know that he really had loved her 348

...I am who I ever was. What I called masculinity, what I celebrated in it was just an excuse for *me*-ness, wasn't it? 348

In page 217, they talk about sex workers who impersonate other people. Talk on monogamy, sex, and all that stuff related to mutualling on 322, 323, 324. Genar-Hofoen accidentally fucks an avatar in 330, and it's interesting that it's one of the very few female avatars. Generally 348 Genar-Hofoen gender mess. Page 350 silly blaming one's mother stuff about parenting in the Culture. 

#### About Non Pan-Human Species

Colonel Alien-Befriender (fist class) Fivetide Humidyear VII of the Winterhunter tribe threw four of his limbs around the human and hugged him tightly to his central mass, pursing his lip fronds and pressing his front beak to the human's cheek. 'Mmmmww*wah*!' 27

Genar-Hofoen had visited this particular nest speca before on a few occasions. He looked up to see if the three ancient human heads which the hall sported were visible this evening; the Diplomatic Force prided itself on having the tact to order that recognisable trophy bits of any given alien be covered over when a still animate example of that species paid a visit, but sometimes they forgot. 28

A group of discreetly blank portrait discs indicated the females of other clans Fivetide could honourably claim to have successfully impregnated; the discs edged with precious metals bore witness to those who had put up a struggle 30

Genar-Hofoen shook his head slightly, grinning to himself. In all his life he had never been anywhere as unequivocally alien as here, inside a giant torus of cold, compressed gas orbiting a black hole—itself in orbit around a brown dwarf body light years from the nearest star—its exterior studded with ships—most of them the jaggedly bulbous shapes of Affront craft—and full, in the main, of happy, space-faring Affronters and their collection of associated victim-species. Still, he had never felt so thoroughly at home 38

'I want to become an Affronter.' ... 'Well, some of the time,' ... 'I mean, all I want is an Affronter body, one that I can just sort of zap into and... well, just *be* an Affronter. You know; socialise. I don't see what the problem is, really. 63

For all our oft-repeated horror at their effects on others, there exists, I think, a kind of grudging admiration in many Culture folk for the Affront's energy, not to mention their 212 apparent freedom from the effects of moral conscience 211-212

Affronters, their slaved drones and other machines 212

Fivetide is mean to a 'waiter-scum' in page 28. It is revealed that GH has become an Affronter in 445

Excession; that was what the Culture called such things. It had become a pejorative term and so the Elench didn't use it normally, except sometimes informally, amongst themselves. Excession; something excessive. Excessively aggressive, excessively powerful, excessively expansionist; whatever. 93

Epilogue (last page) is the excession presenting a mind for review, not very important but a hint at larger worldbuilding
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Idirans\|Idirans]]

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Non-sapient deemed creatures\|Non-sapient deemed creatures]]
The puff-creant was a small symbiont, half animal half vegetable, which you paid to squat on your shoulder and cough up your nose every time you turned your face towards it. The cough contained spores that could do any one of about thirty different and interesting things to your perceptions and moods 256
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Sublimed species\|Sublimed species]]

Young Sublimers stood outside the enclosure, clad in glowing white robes. The Sublimers—each tall and thin—glowed, too; their skin glowed gently, pallid to the point of unhealthy-looking bloodlessness. Their eyes shone, soft light spilling from the wide, open whites, while the same half-silvery light was projected from their teeth when they smiled. They smiled all the time, even hen they were talking. 258

Sublimers had turned what was a normal but generally optional part of a species' choice of fate into a religion. Sublimers believed that everybody ought to Sublime, that every human, every animal, every machine and Mind ought to head straight for ultimate transcendence, leaving the mundane life behind and setting as direct a course as possible for nirvana.
People who joined the cult spent a year trying to persuade others of this before they Sublimed themselves, joining one of the sect's group-minds to contemplate irreality. 259

Sublimation seen as accounting in 421

#### About Dajeil's pregnancy

Dajeil folded her arms across the bulge of her forty-year-old, self-perpetuated pregnancy 10

The temptation was always to tamper, to fiddle with the settings that regulated everything, as though by such meddling one proved how carefully painstaking and watchful one was being, but she always resisted, content that there were no warning signs, no notice that some imbalance was threatening either her health or that of the fetus and happy to leave the body's own systemic wisdom to prevail over the brain's desire to intervene 314

'Does it count as screwing, technically, when neither of you has a penis?' She assumed a pained, puzzled expression 345

She would halt its development. For a while. Until she knew her own mind again. Until she felt ready for it. She didn't know how long the wait would be. A few months; a year, maybe. 355

She watched herself move amongst the gracefully undulating wings of the great, gentle creatures. Swollen,. awkward, she was the only graceless thing in the picture 374

Dajeil gave a bitter laugh. 'Oh yes,' she said. 'I've been here, doing nothing except growing older. But what about him?' she asked, and suddenly there was something fierce about her voice. 'How much has *he* lived in forty years? How many loves has *he* had?' 375

What you gave me you gave unasked. Some of it was unwanted, ... all those animals, those other lives, those eternal births and childhoods;  mocking me. 400

Dajeil checks on her baby in pages 313, 314 (discussion of alteration). Lesbians (yippee) in page 320 and explanation of Mutualling in page 321. Drama in 344, 345 (fighting over monogamy), 346 (evil lesbian murder). The avatar explains the ship's hand and reason in all of it in 390, 391, 392, 393. Mind-state reading of the fetus and abortion(ish) argument in 426
