---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/5-inversions/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

Did the Doctor really imagine that everybody went around believing different things? One believed what one was told to believe, 126 what it made sense to believe. Unless one was a foreigner, of course, or a philosopher. 125-126

DeWar explains the Culture as a fairytale to Perrund in pages 103, 104
#### About sexism, women, femininity

A certain immodest forthrightedness in her bearing is the cause of this, perhaps, plus the suspicion that while she pays flawless lip service to the facts of loife which dictate the accepted and patent preeminence of the male, she does so with a sort of unwarranted humour, producing in us males the unsettingly contrary feeling that she is indulging us 9

I am just a crippled, ill-educated woman, DeWar. A poor orphan who might have met a terrible fate if I had not caught the eye of the Protector 38

Your ears should burn when he talks about women being doctors, or for that matter women being anything other than whores, wives and mothers 49

Still, it was a most diverting display. I always held with your father that it was both unseemly and unnecessary that women be allowed on to a stage when castrati werew so readily avaliable, however I see that women's fanciful and imaginative nature may be put to good use when it 163 comes to providing us with such humorous vignettes. I see now that such frivolity and such licence is indeed much welcome. As long as one does not take it too seriously, of course. 162-163

It is men who fight wars, wars are fought taking villages, towns and cities, where women tend the hearths, and when the place they live is taken, so are they. Their honour becomes one of the spoils, their bodies too invaded. Their territory taken. So my story is no different from that of tens of thousands of women, regardless of their nation or their tribe. And yet for me it is everything. For me it is the most important thing that ever happened to me. For me it was the end of my life, and what you see before you is like a ghost, a spirit, a mere shade, unsubstantial. 330

I have implied that I was raped. That did not kill me. That alone might have killed the girl I was and replaced her with a woman, with a bitter one, with an angry one, or one who wished to take her own life, or attempt to take the life of those who violated her, or one who simply became mad.
'I think I might have become angry and bitter and I would have hated all men, but I think I would have survived and might have been persuaded, by the good men I knew in my own family and in my own town, and perhaps by one good man in particular who must now for ever remain in my dreams, that all was not lost and the world was not quite so terrible a place.
'Bit I never had that opportunity to recover, DeWar. I was pushed so far down in my despair I could not even tell in which direction the way back up lay. What happened to me was the least of it, DeWar. I watched my father and my brothers butchered, after they had been forced to watch my mother and my sisters being fucked time after time by a fine and numerous company of high-ranking men.' 331

I tried to tell myself that I felt good when I heard about the first few dying, but I did not. I could not. I felt nothing. That was when I knew I was dead inside. They had planted death in me. 335

In the harem of the chief, [...] As a cripple kept on out of sympathy in the collection of mates for the foremost male of the pack 336

In page 59, blunt description of an infection contracted from being raped. Perrund's lore on pages 143 and 144. Creepy rapey Ralinge in pages 192-193 (sadomasochism)
#### About warfare, extinction, worth of life etc.

The Doctor bent forward to peer into the man's face and I heard her give a small gasp.
Nolieti snorted. 'Looking for these?' he asked the Doctor, and flourished a small bowl at her 13

The cur who had lured us into this absurd mission was a hobble-legged child from the Barrows. The palace guards hadn't even let her into the outer bastion. It had been sheer bad luck that some fool of a servant, bringing the guards a note of instruction, had overheard the brat's preposterous pleadings 43

a family of slack-witted all-runt ne'er-do-wells, a tribe of contagiously flea'd happen-ills so fundamentally useless they were not even servants but merely the hangers-on of servants, itinerant leeches on the body of the city and the land 43

(She is always thanking servants. I think the menials of Drezen must be a surly lot. Or just spoiled.) 84

'She's crippled!' YetAmidous said.
'Yet still, I think, beautiful,' Simalg said. 98

crippled girl 56

crippled child 57

W: No. I believe this matter is closed. I attach no great significance to the death of a pair of torturers. Theirs is a despicable if necvessary craft. 
Q: Despicable? Oh no. No indeed. Why, I would call it a form of art at its most elevated. My man, Ralinge, is a veritable master. I have only avoided singing his praises to Quience because I'm afraid he might take him from me, and that would be most upsetting. I should feel deprived. 198                    

Her good hand massaged and wiped at the wasted hand, which lay floating just under the surface of the water like the limb of a drowned child 388

General classism in 232 against Oleph.                                                                                    