---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/4-banks/6-look-to-windward/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


#### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/The Culture\|The Culture]]

Momentous: they lived or died by whim! A few of their more famous perople announced they would live once and die forever, and billions did likewise; then a new trend would start amongst opinion-formers for people to back-up and have their bodies wholly renewed or new ones regrown, or to have their personalities transferred into android replicas or some other more bizarre design, or... well, anything; there was really no limit, but the point was that people wopuld start doing that sort of thing by the billion, too, just because it had become fashionable 12

Mortality as a life-style choice? 12

most of them human though not all in human form 16. Twin Novae battle lore on page 29 (gigadeathcrime stuff)

'No. You have a situation, an environment. That is not the same thing. You exist. I would hardly deny you that.'
'Well, thanks.'
'Yeah. Otherwise you'd be talking to yourself.'
'You're saying we don't really live, is that it?'
'That depends what you mean by live. But let's say yes.'
'How fascinating, my dear Ziller,' E. H. Tersono said. 'I wonder—'
'Because we don't suffer.'
'Because you scarcely seem capable of suffering.'
'Well said! Now, Ziller—'
'Oh, this is such an ancient argument...'
'But it's only the *ability* to suffer that—'
'Hey! I've suffered! Lemil Kimp broke my heart.'
'Shut up, Tulyi.'
'—you know, that makes you sentient, or whatever. It's not actually suffering.' 19

Feli Vitrouv was one of about half of the wing-fliers for whom no recording of her mind-state existed to revive them if they dived into the ground and were killed. It gave Kabe an unpleasant feeling just thinking about it 61

'We help to define them. They like that.'
'Define them? Is that all?'
'I don't think that's the reason they like to have us here, certainly not in our case. But we give them an alien standard to calibrate themselves against.' 62

Get this guy out of here. He shouldn't have been invited in the first place. There are one-timers here with no savers. If this clown thinks we're in a sim he could do anything 105

People—especially Culture people, whether human, once human, alien or machine—had been building Orbitals like this for thousands of years, and not very long after the process had become a mature technology, still thousands of years earlier, some fun- (or at any rate risk-) loving individual had thought of using a few of the lava streas naturally generated by such processes as the medium for a new sport 106

But the Culture is so insistent in its utopianism, ... They are like an infant with a toy, demanding it only to throw it away 114

Supposedly they were infinitely patient, boundlessly resourceful, unceasingly understanding, but would not any rational mind, with or without the capital letter, grow tired of such unleavened niceness eventually? Wouldn't they want to cause just a little havoc, just once in a while, just to show what they could do? 125

It was more or less accepted in sdome quarters that the Culture's whole civilisational demeanour resulted from the fact that every single human in the society had been thoroughly, comprehensively and imaginatively spoiled as a child by virtually everyone around them 140

Being fitted with your first implanty was about as close as some bits of the Culture got to a formal adult initiation rite. Another tradition was to move smoothly from a cuddly talking toy via other gradually less childish devices to a tasteful little pen terminal, brooch, or jewel stud 141

Stuff about holidays meaning the opposite to what they do now in page 14. Uagen's body plan and plans for his body in page 90

Ziller shook his head. 'Persuasion. What's reasonable. Would I mind? Am I concerned? Would I be insulted? I may do as I please but then so may he.' Ziller pointed angrily at the avatar. 'You people are polite to the point of it becoming worse than any direct insult. All this pussy-footing, mealy-mouthed bullshit, dancing round each other after-you-no-after-you-no-after-*you*!' He waved his arms around as his voice rose to a shout. 'I hate this hopeless congealment of fucking good *manners*! Can't anyone just *do* something?' 205

People who can't stand other people are inviting them to dinner, booking deep-space cruises togfether—good grief—even agreeing to go camping with them. Camping! ... People have traded sexual favours, they've agreed to pregnancies, they've altered their appearance to accommodate a partner's desires, they've begun to change gender to please lovers; all just to get tickets. ... How wonderfully, bizarrely, romantically barbaric of them! 352
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Minds, Drones and other AI\|Minds, Drones and other AI]]

No laws or written regulations at all, but so many little... observances, sets of manners, ways of behaving politely. And fashions. They had fashions in so many things, from the most trivial to the most momentous 12

The machijne was merely clever, not sentient. It would probably not have been able to recognise the emotions behind his words anyway, even if they had been communicated 47

'The spirit of adventure and exploration is obviously alien to your computer soul,' Ziller told it.
The avatar reached out and flicked a speck of dust from the top of one boot. 'Do I have a soul? Is that meant to be a compliment?' 194

Hub, then. It's a good listener.'
'Well, I understand, but there are those of us who think that it only seems to care.'
'What? It's *designed* to care.'
'No, it's designed to *seem* to care. With a person you feel that you're communicating on an animal level.' 233

'It is done very, very rarely, and the result tends to be ostracism. There was a ship called the *Grey Area*, once. It used to do that sort of thing. It became known as the *Meatfucker* as a result. When you look up thje catalogues that's the name it's listed under, with its original, chosen name as a footnote. To be denied your self-designated name is a unique insult in the Culture, Ziller. The vessel disappeared some time ago. Probably it killed itself, arguably as a result of the shame attached to such behaviour and resulting disrespect.'
'All it is is looking inside an animal brain.'
'That's just it. It is so easy, and it would mean so little, really. That is why the not-doing of it is probably the most profound manner in which we honour our biological progenitors. This prohibition is a mark of our respect. And so I cannot do it. 249 

'Ziller, are you concerned that Minds—AIs, if you like—can create, or even just appear to create, original works of art?'
'Frankly, when they're the sort of original works of art that I create, yes.'
'Ziller, it doesn't matter. You have to think like a mountain climber.' 300
'Oh, do I?'
'Yes. Some people take days, sweat buckets, endure pain and cold and risk injury and—in some cases—permanent death to achieve the summit of a mountain only to discover there a party of their peers freshly arrived by aircraft and enjoying a light picnic.' 299-300
 
In page 126 they talk about how most societies build AIs and how those AIs are similar to the society that creates them. In pages 314, 315 and 316 Hub talks about watching people die, about killing, and about what it feels like to kill. 
#### About Types of Pan-Human

He looked back at his tracks in the sanow covering the canal path. Three lines of footprints. He wondered what a human—what any bipedal—would make of such a trail. Probably, he suspected, they would not notice. Even if they did, they would just ask and instantly be told. Hub would tell them: those will be the tracks of our honored Homomdan guest Ambassador Kabe Ischloear. 11
#### About Non Pan-Human Species

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Chelgrians\|Chelgrians]]

'I am not bickering. I'm trying to get you to behave rationally.'
'I am behaving rationally.'
'This doesn't impress me, you know. It's your duty to save yourself.'
'And yours not to despair.'
'Not despair? My comrade and mate is acting like an imbecile and I've got a—' 4

The Chelgrian was nearly as long as Kabe was tall, and covered in fur that varied from white around his face to dark brown on his back. He had a predator's build, with large forward-facing eyes set in a big, broad-jawed head. His rear legs were long and powerful; a striped tail, woven about with a silver chain, curved between them. Where his distant ancestors would have had two middle-legs, Ziller had a single broad midlimb, partially covered by a dark waistcoat. His arms were much like a human's, though covered in golden fur and ending in broad, siux-digit hands more like paws 18

To hope as he was hoping, hoping against likelyhood, against statistical probability, in that sense against the universe itself, was only to be expected, but it was also almost certainly forlorn. The animal in him craved something that his higher brain knew was not going to happen. That was the point he was impaled upon, the front on which he suffered; that struggle of the lower brain's almost chemical simplicities of yearning pitched against the withering realities rtevealed and comprehended by consciousness 36

Of course. Their caste system. At least part of the reason that Ziller was here and not there. 22

*So; am I being brought back to life to appreciate the manifest glories of the new order? To be re-educated? Tried for past incorrectness? What?* 39

What bizarre fates our technologies dream up for us, he thought as he lay there. Here I am, a male, becoming pregnant with the ghost of an old dead soldier, to travel beyond the bounds of light older than our civilisation and carry out some task I have spent the best part of a year training for but of which I presently have no real knowledge whatsoever. 43 

Before, we believed that the soul might be saved. Now our technology, our better understanding of the universe and our vanguard in the beyond, has robbed us of our unreal hopes and replaced them with its own rules and regulations, its own algebra of salvation and continuance. It has given us a glimpse of heaven, and made more intense the reality of our despair when we know that truly it exists and that those we love will never be found there 47

*They'd look like prey if there was just more eating on them.* 48

My own species' abominations are efficient enough in terms of the death and suffering produced, but pedestrian and tawdry. 65

The background to the war, my studious Homomdan pal, is three thousaned years of ruthless oppression, cultural imperialism, economic exploitation, systemic torture, sexual tyranny and the cult of greed ingrained almost to the point of genetic inheritability 66

*You're going without* servants? *Are you some sort of fucking* outcast *or something, Major? You're not one of these embryonicist Caste Deniers, are you?* 72 

Even dead he's worth more than you two brain-dead fuckwits, so make sure he's alive when we get to Golse or you'll be following him to heaven. 81

Despite garnering outrageous fame and fortune in his career he scandalised them still further, to the point of illness and breakdown, when he became a radical Caste Denier, entered politics as an Equalitarian and used his prestige to argue for the end of the caste system. Gradually public and political opinion began to shift; it started to look as though the long talked-about Great Change might finally happen. After an unsuccessful attempt on his life Ziller renounced his caste altogether, and so was deemed the lowest of the non-criminal low; an Invisible 116

'They're saying they didn't know he was going to go crazy, that it never occurred to them that a bit of equality—exactly what these people had been shouting for all this time—might not be enough for them, that some of them might just be stupid and vicious enough to want revenge. Never dawned on them that their shit-caste friends might want to do some score-setting, no. That wouldn't make sense, that wouldn't be logical.' The colonel almost spat that last word. 134

can you believe they've actually had the gall to quote figures, statistics at us? Telling us that this hardly ever happens, that ninety-nine per cent or whatever of these "interferences" go according to plan, that we've just been really unlucky and they're really sorry and they'll help us rebuild? 134

The old monk wore his decrepitude with no hint of pride or disdain, and yet, in this age of regrown bodies and replacement organs, such decay had to be voluntary, even deliberate  161

Now people die but their Soulkeeper can revive them, or take them to a heaven we know exists, without any need for faith. We have clones, we have regrown bodies—most of me is regrown; I wake up sometimes and think, Am I still me? I know you're supposed to be your brain, your wits, your thoughts, but I don't believe it is that simple 161

It was not uncommon, nowadays, for people with terrible memories either to have them excised, or to retreat into dreams, and live from then on in a virtual world from which it was relatively easy to exclude the memories and their effects that had made normal life so unbearable 168

a handful of servants of various castes and a number of Blinded Invisibles who had remained faithful to the old ways through the Caste War. 220

the absurd blasphemy of our manufactured heaven 237

In 37, Sholan and Quilan are introduced. In 38, they have a conversation on the civil war. In 70, they talk about culture interventionalism and 71 about the use of culture terms. An explanation of Chelgrian heaven is explained in pages 166 and 167, explaining how subliming was used to generate heaven. 
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Behemotaurs\|Behemotaurs]] 

Gossip amongst Muetenive and Yoleus' assorted populations of slaved organisms, symbiotes, parasites and guests 89

974 Praf was a fifth-order Decider in the dirigible behemothaur Yoleus' 11th Foliage Gleaner Troupe who had been given upgraded autononomous intelligence and the title Interpreter when she'd been assigned to Uagen. 92

Praf had probably never been in a position where she couldn't see the great creature that was her home, host, leader, parent and beloved 100

Fear was there for a purpose. It was wired into any creature that had not completely turned its back on its evolutionary inheritance and so remade itself in whatever image it coveted. The more sophisticated you became, the less you relied on fear and pain to keep you alive; you could afford to ignore them because you had other means of coping with the consequences if things went badly 177

It had been like a horrific cross between cancer and civil 179 war. The entire ecosystem that was the dirigible behemotaur Sansemin was tearing itself apart. Now others were joining in. 179

In page 174, the scene inside the behemotaus where Praf is assimilated. More lore around it in 175.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Non-sapient deemed creatures\|Non-sapient deemed creatures]]

The situation was complicated by various other non-human creatures which, but for the avatar, Quilan might easily have mistaken for other sentient aliens but that turned out to be no more than animal pets 156
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/4. Banks/Bodies/Sublimed species\|Sublimed species]]

Subliming was an accepted if still somewhat mysterious part of gaslactic life; it meant leaving the normal matter-based life of the universe behind and ascending to a higher state of existence based on pure energy. In theory any individual—biological or machine—could Sublime, given the right technology, but the pattern was for whole swathes of a society and species to disappear at the same time, ande often the entirety of a civilisation went in one go (only the Culture was known to worry that such—to it—unlinkely absoluteness implied a degree of coercion). 164

#### About Terraforming

Filling every avaliable bit of each and every Plate weith gently rolling hills and babbling brooks, or even spectacular mountains and broad oceans, was not seen as producing a properly balanced Orbital environment; there ought to be wastes, there should be badlands. 196