---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/3-simmons/1-1-hyperion/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Hegemony\|Hegemony]]
>We are in a comfortable Dark Ages of the inventive mind; institutions change but little, and that by gradual evolution rather than revolution; scientific research creeps crablike in a lateral shuffle, where once it leaped in great intuitive bounds; devices change even less (Hyperion 137

>the All Thing took its democratic place among the list of humanity's benevolent despots, the TechnoCore seceded from human service and then offered its help as an ally rather than a slave, and the Ousters retreated to darkness and the role of Nemesis (Hyperion 137

>the population of literate people has been declining steadily (Hyperion 146

>ninety-eight percent of the Hegemony's population had no reason to read anything. So they didn't bother learning how to. (Hyperion 146

the sentence length and chapter content carefully guided by neuro-bio-monitored responses on a test group of 638 average hardfax readers (Hyperion 149
##### About communication, immediacy, etc
the incessant babble of FTL bursts which tied the human portions of the galaxy together (Hyperion 5

>The Worldweb All Thing, the real-time network which governed Hegemony politics, fed information to tens of billions of data-hungry citizens, and had evolved a form of autonomy and consciousness all its own (Hyperion 95

>In the beginning was the Word. Then came the fucking word processor. Then came the thought processor. Then came the death of literature. And so it goes. (Hyperion 130

>I gave up long-term memory for the transient satisfaction of implant omniscience (Hyperion 144

Someone once estimated that the All Thing deals with about a hundred active pieces of Hegemony legislation per day, and during my months spent screwed into the sensorium I missed none of them. ... I finally gave up the political obsession only after I realized that accessing the All Thing regularly meant either staying home or turning into a walking zombie (Hyperion 144

>it's weird to be cut off from everybody and everything like this. It's like being blind and deaf. I don't know how colonials stand it (Hyperion 175

##### About cybernetic modifications
>the mind-stunting shortcuts of RNA medication, datasphere immersion, systemic flashback training, stylized encounter groups, 'higher-level thinking skills' at the expense of facts, or preliterate programming (Hyperion 134

##### About biological modifications
a satyr then, formed in flesh as mirror to my soul (Hyperion 131

>she could have chosen *ex utero* fertilization, a male lover with a transplant of Daddy's DNA, a clonal surrogate, a gene-spliced virgin birth, you name it... (Hyperion 131)

radical ARNists and cosmetic gene splicers (Hyperion 143

from a biosculptor aptly named Graumann Hacket, I obtained the hairy flanks, hooves, and goat legs of a satyr 1(Hyperion 56
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Templars\|Templars]]
>A Templar treeship normally carried between two and five thousand passengers; ... For the treeship to make the trip to Hyperion and back, accumulating six years of Web time *with no paying passengers* would mean a staggering financial loss to the Templars (Hyperion 9

>the northern reaches where Templar lobbying of the All Thing had stopped the colonial heating project in order to save the arctic wraiths (Hyperion 261
##### About Religion
the old-style Christian sect known as Catholic (Hyperion 9

>the decline of the Catholic Church into what amounted to a half-forgotten cult tolerated because of its quaintness and isolation (Hyperion 19
##### About Poulsen Treatments
noticed the telltale blue tinge to throat and palms and suspected that the man had been through more than a few Poulsen treatments. Silenus' true age might be anywhere from ninety to a hundred and fifty standard years. (Hyperion 10

The best anti-aging drugs the Hegemony has to offer only manage to extend an active lifetime a bit over the hundred standard-year mark. Preventive health measures have spread the vitality of early middle age well into the late sixties — my age but except for clonal transplants, bioengineering, and other perks for the very rich, no one in the Worldweb can expect to begin planning a family when they are seventy (Hyperion 46

>all but glowed blue-white from those crude, early Poulsen treatments; he was like an irradiated mummy of a man, sealed in liquid plastic (Hyperion 133-134

>the Poulsen treatments to keep the instrument alive and waiting. Two long, cold sleeps in illegal, sublight, cryogenic voyages; each swallowing a century or more; each taking its toll in brain cells and memory (Hyperion 169
##### About drug use
most of their fellow passengers lay tuned into erotic stimsims (Hyperion 20

the Olympus Command School Historical Tactical Network was as far beyond regular stimsims as full-form holos were beyond tintypes — but the physical sensations were so convincing, so *real*, that Kassad did not relish the thought of being wounded (Hyperion 87

The drug of choice is Flashback. It is definitely an upper-class vice: one needs the full range of expensive implants to fully experience it (Hyperion 143
#### About cryogenic fugue
the peculiar headache, dry throat, and sense of having forgotten a thousand dreams which only periods in cryogenic fugue could bring (Hyperion 7

I, foe example, am sixty-eight standard years old, but because of the time-debt my travels could have incurred, I might have spread these threescore and eight years across well more than a century of Hegemony history (Hyperion 16

my cells feel the fatigue of these past months of travel even if I do not remember them (Hyperion 23

in long-term cryogenic sleep — as opposed to a few weeks or months in fugue — chances of terminal brain damage were one in six (Hyperion 136

the thought that she was flying away from him faster than the speed of light, wrapped in the artificial quantum cocoon of the Hawking effect, seemed unnatural and ominous to him (Hyperion 184)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Indigenies\|Indigenies]] as valued against citizens
>evacuate the Hegemony citizens on Hyperion (Hyperion 4

If the fleet *did* construct a farcaster in time and the Hegemony committed the total resources of FORCE to defending the single, distant, colonial world of Hyperion, the Worldweb ran the terrible risk of suffering an Ouster attack elsewhere on the perimeter or — in a worst-case scenario — having the barbarians actually seizing the farcaster and penetrating the Web itself. (Hyperion 4

>millions of indigenies and thousands of Hegemony citizens (Hyperion 6

>'Those are *people,*' said Brawne Lamia, pointing toward the main terminal gates on the south side of the field. A wave of drab colors crashed like a silent surf against the outer fence and the violet containment field (Hyperion 75)

>we accepted their worship as our due and put them to work next to our blueskins (Hyperion 130
##### About dehumanisation
the less important cargo — we passengers (Hyperion 26

>He lifted the man's heart and seemed to weigh it in one hand. 'In the Web worlds, this'd be worth some money on the open market. There're those too poor to keep vat-grown, cloned parts in store, but too well off to die just for want of a heart. But out here it's just offal.' (Hyperion 28)

>in Lusus hive societies, individuals respond to their class category followed by a simple code (Hyperion 42

awoke in one of the deeper hive tunnels of Lusus with his military comlog implant stolen — by someone who apparently had taken a correspondence course in surgery (Hyperion 97

the Bressian civilians had been found flayed open and pinned down on steel trays like frogs in a biology lab, their organs bathed with nutrient fluids, arms and legs efficiently amputated, eyes removed, and their minds readied for interrogators' questions with crude cortical comtaps and shunt-plugs jacked directly through three-centimeter holes in the skulls (Hyperion 109)
##### About Warfare
>After the obscenities of the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries on Old Earth, when military leaders had committed their nations to strategies wherein entire civilian populations were legitimate targets while their uniformed executioners sat safe in self-contained bunkers fifty meters under the earth, the repugnance of the surviving civilians was so great that for more than a century the word 'military' was an invitation to a lynching. (Hyperion 100

>As the New Bushido evolved it combined the age-old concepts of honor and individual courage with the need to spare civilians whenever possible. It also saw the wisdom of returning tp pre-Napoleonic concepts of small, 'nontotal' wars with defined goals and proscribed excesses (Hyperion 100

As if to demonstrate what war had once been about, the Ousters scoured North Bressia — first with several hundred fallout-free nuclear weapons and tactical plasma bombs, then with deathbeams, and finally with tailored viruses (Hyperion 102

Warfare had been thrown back to the twentieth century or twenty-first century: long, grim campaigns fought through the brick dust of ruined cities over the corpses of civilians (Hyperion 104
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Androids and Crew Clones\|Androids and Crew Clones]], and other cloned servants
>crew clones (Hyperion 7

>For more than a century it had been illegal to own androids in the Hegemony, and none had been biofactured for almost that long, but they were still used for manual labor in remote parts of backwater, noncolony worlds (Hyperion 83

>the Church of the Shrike doctrine which proclaimed that androids were free from original sin, therefore spiritually superior to humankind (Hyperion 83

>androids willing to till the soil and stoke the reactors and raise the cities (Hyperion 130

>these blueskinned friends-of-man labored and tilled with the understanding that once these final labors were finished they were free at last (Hyperion 156

androids and bond clones built the goddamn thing (Hyperion 301
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Bikura\|Bikura]] and [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cruciform Carriers\|Cruciform Carriers]]
Their physiognomy is hard to describe succinctly. They are bald. All of them. ... Their faces were smooth, the skin tinged with a yellowish cast (Hyperion 38

>an ancient genetic disorder variously called Down's syndrome, mongolism, or generation-ship legacy. ... I was being greeted by a silent, smiling band of bald, retarded children. (Hyperion 38

>It did not come off this morning. *It did not come off* (Hyperion 54

The cave walls and ceiling were encrusted with crosses ranging in size from a few millimeters to almost a meter long. Each glowed with a deep, pink light of its own. ... Thirty or so centimeters accross, it pulsed with a soft, organic flow. ... it was definitely organic, definitely alive, resembling soft coral (Hyperion 56)

It lay there as if it were part of my flesh. I pulled, scraped, and tore at the throng until it snapped and fell away. I clawed at the cross-shaped lump on my chest. *It did not come off*. It was as if my flesh had sealed itself around the edges of the cruciform (Hyperion 59)

sheer terror in my soul at the though of this thing attached to me (Hyperion 59)

the internal fibers that spread like thin tentacles, like *roots*, throughout my body (Hyperion 59)

>The cruciform itself is composed of familiar tissue... *the DNA is mine.* I am of the cruciform (Hyperion 60

>The Bikura are sexless. Not celibate or hermaphroditic or underdeveloped — sexless. They are as devoid of external or internal genitalia as a child's flowfoam doll. There is no evidence that the penis or testes or comparable female organs have atrophied or been surgically altered. *There is no sign that they ever existed* (Hyperion 60)

For a few seconds the cruciform seemed to increase in size and deepen in color, glowing as red as raw meat, and I imagined then that I caught a glimpse of the network of filaments and nematodes holding the disintegrating body together like metal fibers in a sculptor's melting model. *The flesh flowed.* ... The body of the Bikura I had named Alpha was broken down and rebuilt as I watched. The corpse that was left was not quite Alpha and not quite *not* Alpha, but it was intact (Hyperion 63)

>The Bikura have realized the human dream of immortality and have paid for it with their humanity and their immortal souls (Hyperion 65

>he'd been hanging there... oh, dear God... seven years. Living. Dying. The cruciform...forcing him to live again. Electricity... surging through him every second of those... those seven years. Flames. Hunger. Pain. Death. But somehow the goddamned... cruciform... leeching substance from the tree maybe, the air, what was left... rebuilding what it could... forcing him to *live*, to feel the pain, over and over and over... (Hyperion 72
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Ousters\|Ousters]]
An Ouster migration cluster of at least four thousand... units... (Hyperion 4

>the interstellar barbarians (Hyperion 4

>Who knows what the Ousters will do? ... They no longer appear to be motivated by human logic (Hyperion 11

>They'll burn the cities into charred rubble, break the rubble into smaller pieces, and then bake the pieces until they glow. They'll melt the poles, boil the oceans, and then use the residue to salt what's left of the continents so nothing will ever grow there again. (Hyperion 12

The Ousters had been the single external threat to the Hegemony for the four centuries since the forebears of the barbarian hordes had left Sol System in their crude fleet of leaking O'Neill cities, tumbling asteroids, and experimental comet farm clusters (Hyperion 101

>stories in the Wordweb proliferated: the Ousters would never be a threat to Earthlike worlds because of their three centuries of adaptation to weightlessness; the Ousters had evolved into something more — or less — than human (Hyperion 101

>Ousters remained the Hegemony's prime bogey men (Hyperion 125

>*I believe the Ousters have done what Web humanity has not in the past millenia: evolved. While we live in our derivative cultures, pale reflections of Old Earth life, the Ousters have explored new dimensions of aesthetics and ethics and biosciences and art and all the things that must change and grow to reflect the human soul. Barbarians, we call them, while all the while we timidly cling to our Web like Visigoths crouching in the ruins of Rome's faded glory and proclaim ourselves civilized* (Hyperion 340
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Technocore\|Technocore]]
I had no idea where the TechnoCore was. The AIs had peacefully seceded from human control more than three centuries ago — before my time — and while they continued to serve the Hegemony as allies by advising the All Thing, monitoring the dataspheres, occasionally using their predictive abilities to help us avoid major mistakes or natural disasters, the TechnoCore generally went about its own undecipherable and distinctly nonhuman business in privacy (Hyperion 239)

>worrying about AIs turning on us is about as productive as worrying that farm animals are going to revolt (Hyperion 249)

>the same congregation of AIs which advises the Senate and the All Thing and which allows our entire economy, farcaster system, and technological civilization to run (Hyperion 279

without UI input, the Core knows the details of the physical, human and AI future to a margin of 98.9995 percent for a period of at least two centuries. The AI Advisory Council to the All Thing with its vague, delphic utterances — considered so indispensable by humans — is a joke (Hyperion 291
##### About the UI project
a TechnoCore project going back at least seven standard centuries to realize the Ultimate Intelligence (Hyperion 270

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cybrids\|Cybrids]]
>Cybrids are a whole different matter. Tailored from human genetic stock, they are far more human in appearance and outward behavior than androids are allowed to be. Agreements between the TechnoCore and the Hegemony allow only a handful of cybrids to be in existence (Hyperion 239

>From an AI's perspective, the beautiful body and intriguing personality sitting across the desk from me must be merely another appendage, a remote, somewhat more complex but otherwise no more important than any one of then thousand such sensors, manipulators, autonomous units, or other remotes that an AI might use in a day's work. (Hyperion 239

'How the hell can they reconstruct a personality that lost in time?' 'Writings,' said Johnny. 'His letters. Diaries. Critical biographies. Testimony of friends. But mostly though his verse' (Hyperion 245

>the resultant personality would not be the AI persona... neither would it be a truly human consciousness or cybrid... (Hyperion 279

>as close to human as someone forged in the Core could ever be (Hyperion 289)

>as a pseudo-poet cybrid retrieval project, I was a freak, a pet, a partial thing allowed to roam the Web the way a pet is let out of the house each day (Hyperion 290
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cyberpukes\|Cyberpukes]]
>spent most of his life reclining on a free-fall couch with half a dozen microleads running from his skull while he communed with other bureaucrats in datumplane (Hyperion 248

>a pure cyberpuke, a twentieth-generation hacker, cortically shunted when he was twelve standard (Hyperion 248

>BB was like most cyberpukes in that he never felt comfortable exchanging information when he wasn't riding a data wave (Hyperion 248

>BB's head had exploded, spattering most of the console with gray and red. His mouth was open and a thick white foam still issued from it. It looked like his eyes had melted (Hyperion 288)
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Shrike\|Shrike]]
an organic killing machine (Hyperion 14

>It was vaguely man-shaped but in no way human. It stood at least three meters tall. Even when it was at rest, the silvered surface of the thing seemed to shift and flow like mercury suspended in midair. The reddish glow from the crosses set into the tunnel walls reflected from sharp surfaces and glinted on the curved metal blades protruding from the thing's forehead, four wrists, oddly jointed elbows, knees, armored back, and thorax (Hyperion 57)

>the four arms, retractable fingerblades, the profusion of thrornspikes on throat, forehead, wrists, knees, and body, but not once did his gaze leave the two thousand-faceted eyes which burned with a red flame (Hyperion 120)

*The Shrike Cult saw the monster as an avenging angel; the Ousters saw it as a tool of human devising, sent back through time to deliver humanity from the TechnoCore* (Hyperion 341

More Shrike definitions in page 161

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Alien Fauna\|Alien Fauna]]
occasional vague, reptilian shapes would blunder into the interdiction field, cry out, and then crash away through indigo mists (Hyperion 3

the mournful ululation of a carrion-breed pack (Hyperion 3

he was, at that second, the only sentient being on an unnamed world. ... hunting big game in the fern forests to the south (Hyperion 5

our surviving packbrid collapsed and died the instant the heavy load was lifted off its back (Hyperion 34)

I thought ergs were those forcefield critters that Templars use on their treeships (Hyperion 231)

>the Church has accepted the Hegemony's ruling that... these creatures... ergs... are not sentient beings... and thus not candidates for salvation (Hyperion 231)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Recovered Old Earth Animals\|Recovered Old Earth Animals]] and extinct ones
fireflies from Old Earth and radiant gossamers from Maui-Covenant blinked and coded their way through labyrinths of leaves (Hyperion 8

>renegade ARNists who plied their trade by resurrecting species of plants and animals long absent from their antediluvian North American haunts (Hyperion 133

#### About Old Earth and the Hegira
>what we quaintly called 'periods of remission' — stretches of ten to eighteen quiet months between planet-wide spasms as the Kiev Team's goddamn little black hole digested bits of the Earth's center (Hyperion 132)

>Old Earth families had come to the realization that the only way to avoid such riffraff was not to allow them to breed. Or, rather, to sponsor seedship fleets; spinship explorations, new farcaster migrations... all of the panicked urgency of the Hegira... as long as they bred out there and left Old Earth alone (Hyperion 132)
#### About Terraforming and Terraformed Planets
>Indigenies breeding like... like humans, I suppose... eyeless cripples, lungs burned out with air rot, squiring a nest of a dozen offspring, the children's skin scabrous by age five-standard, their eyes watering incessantly from the sting on an atmosphere which will kill them before they're forty, their smiles carious, their oily hair rife with lice and the blood bags of dracula ticks (Hyperion 136 - about heaven's gate

>flash-dried and reheated cloned beef, potatoes which had never seen soil (Hyperion 290

>I thought of the brave and stupid idealists heading out into the great dark in their slow and leaking ships, carrying embryos and ideologies with equal faith and care (Hyperion 332

>*It is no accident that in six centuries of interstellar expansion the Hegemony has encountered no species considered intelligent on the Drake-Turing-Chen index. On Old Earth, it had long been accepted that if a species put mankind on its food-chain menu the species would be extinct before long* (Hyperion 337

>*the Worldweb, the All Thing, the Hegemony of Man — all of them had been built on the most vicious type of patricide. Now they were being maintained by a quiet and deliberate policy of fratricide — the murder of any species with even the slightest potential of being a competitor. And the Ousters, the only other tribe of humanity free to wander between the stars and the only group not dominated by the TechnoCore, was next on our list of extinction* (Hyperion 340

>*to think of Old Earth dying for no reason, to think of the dolphins, their gray flesh drying and rotting in the sun, to see — as I have seen — the motile isles with no place to wander, their feeding grounds destroyed, the Equatorial Shallows scabbed with drilling platforms, the islands themselves burdened with shouting, trammeling tourists smelling of UV lotion and cannabis* (Hyperion 343

pages 337-338 about the Consul's work facilitating violent colonialism
##### About Maui-Covenant and the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Dolphins\|Dolphins]]
A century ago the island would have been driven by the bands of dolphins brought here originally during the Hegira, but the Hegemony pacification program during the Siri Rebellion had killed off most of the aquatic mammals and now the islands wandered listlessly (Hyperion 264

>that's what this colony was all about, remember? A bunch of do-gooders during the Hegira wanted to save all the mammals in Old Earth's oceans. Didn't succeed (Hyperion 315

more than three centuries of effort had not raised much of a dialogue between man and sea mammal (Hyperion 320

>'Why do you herd the islands? ... *sounding now/old songs/deep water/no-Great Voices/no-Shark/old songs/new songs.* ... What do you miss most of Old Earth's oceans? ... *miss Shark/miss Shark/miss Shark/miss Shark/Shark/Shark/Shark*. (Hyperion 321

>*the Hegemony skimmers lighting the sea with their depth charges. In the morning, the waves were gray with the bodies of the dead dolphins* (Hyperion 337