---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/3-simmons/1-2-the-fall-of-hyperion/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Hegemony\|Hegemony]]
The Web seemed both random in design and dwarfed by the sheer size of the galaxy (Hyperion. Fall 448

Consequences of the Hegemony falling in pages 749, 750, 751
##### About communication, immediacy, etc
On a world whose primitive, regional data relays had been shredded by the first hint of combat, this group had linked comlogs and biomonitors to share information and to watch over one another as best they could Hyperion. Fall 371

>there were no signs of panic. People were taking to the datasphere and All Thing rather than the streets Hyperion. Fall 558

>the constant background buzz of the datasphere is gone. It is somewhat like suddenly hearing the absence of a sound one has been immersed in since infancy; it is startling, heart-stopping, confusing, and a bit terrifying. Hyperion. Fall 622

Hunt staggers, claps his ears as if it is true sound that he is missing, taps his comlog. Hyperion. Fall 622

>the terrible withdrawal symptoms he is suffering from the loss of contact with the datasphere. ... For a person born and raised into a world where information was always at hand, communication with anyone anywhere a given, and no distance more than a farcaster step away, this sudden regression to life as our ancestors had known it would be like suddenly awakening blind and crippled Hyperion. Fall 635

Like most people of his generation, Hunt has never seen illness or death — that was a professional matter handled out of sight of the populace Hyperion. Fall 636

>the datasphere — including the All Thing and all comm and access bands — simply ceased to be. Hundreds of thousands of citizens went insane at that moment — shocked into catatonia by the disappearance of senses which had become more important to them than sight or hearing Hyperion. Fall 748

##### About biological modifications
figures molded by the Web's most famous ARNists Hyperion. Fall 357

>Diana Philomel's body was as perfect as cosmetic science and an ARNist's skills could make it Hyperion. Fall 389

>five youths, tailored by back-room ARNists to the point they were more animal than human, ... the creatures in front of her Hyperion. Fall 475

Two of them flicked open vibrades. One extended ten-centimeter-long steel claws. ... yellow eyes, bulbous black eyes, hooded slits and photoreceptive belly bands Hyperion. Fall 475
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Templars\|Templars]]
>Treetops held a score of dining platforms in its upper bowers, ascending in order of rank and privilege and wealth and power. Especially power. In a society where billionaires were almost commonplace, where at lunch at Treetops could cost a thousand marks and be within the reach of millions, the final arbiter of position and privilege was power — a currency that never went out of style Hyperion. Fall 437

no EMVs or skimmers or flying machines of any sort were allowed on God's Grove — petrochemical emissions or fusion-cell wakes had never polluted these skies — and the absence or cities, highways, and electrical lighting made the stars seem bright enough to compete with the Japanese lanterns and glow-globes hanging from branches and stanchions Hyperion. Fall 439

>I could see lights shining up through distant treetops and knew that many of them came from 'rooms' — a few of thousands leased by the Templars — which one could add to one's multiworld farcaster-connected residence if one had the million-mark beginning price for such an extravagance Hyperion. Fall 439

>The Templars did not sully themselves with the day-to-day operations of Treetops or the leasing agencies, merely setting strict, inviolable ecological conditions to any such endeavor, but they benefited from the hundreds of millions of marks brought in by such enterprises Hyperion. Fall 440

the Brotherhood of the Tree was a small but potent force in the Web — a token of ecological awareness in a society devoted to self-destruction and waste but unwilling to aknowledge its indulgent ways Hyperion. Fall 477

Templars have an almost telepathic connection to their treeships Hyperion. Fall 537

'It is human arrogance,' ... 'The same arrogance which has caused our race to destroy all species that might even hope to evolve to intelligence someday.' Hyperion. Fall 630

##### About Poulsen Treatments
>Tyrena was a dinosaur who refused to become extinct — her wrists, palms, and neck would have glowed blue from repeated Poulsens if it had not been for makeup, and she spent decades on short-hop interstellar cruises or incredibly expensive cryogenic naps at spas too exclusive to have names Hyperion. Fall 438
##### About drug use
I saw stims, tranks, Flashback tubes, orgasm derms, shunt primers, cannabis inhalers, non-recom tobacco cigarettes, and a hundred less identifiable drugs Hyperion. Fall 389

>All three sat in rotting chairs, clothed in soiled rags, white arms extended, pale fingers curled around unseen spheres; I could see the slim metal cable curling through the oldest woman's white hair to the black deck on a dusty tabletop. Identical cables twisted from the daughter and granddaughter's skulls.
Wireheads. In the last stages o uplink anorexia from the looks of it. Someone must come in occasionally to feed them intravenously and to chanfe their soiled clothing, but perhaps the war scare had kept their keepers away Hyperion. Fall 572

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Indigenies\|Indigenies]] as valued against citizens
>no datasphere, no EMVs, no farcasters, no stimsim bars, no *nothing*. It's no wonder that there are thousands of the fucking indigenies camped around the spaceport, just tearing down the fence to get offworld Hyperion. Fall 418
##### About dehumanisation
Evacuation of even the sixty thousand or so Hegemony citizens is quite out of the question. It would be chaos if we allowed all three million into the Web Hyperion. Fall 381

Thorough interrogation meant that even now their brains were floating in full-shunt tanks. Their bodies would be kept in cryogenic storage until a secret trial determined if their actions had been treasonable. After the trial, the bodies would be destroyed, and Diana and Hermund would remain in 'detention' with all sensory and comm channels turned off. The Hegemony had not used the death penalty for centuries, but the alternatives were not pleasant Hyperion. Fall 399

>Groups of children, each naked except for strips of rags and dangling shunt jacks, surrounded her, begged for money  FALL 477

Kassad could see the highways, clogged with a river of humanity and moving more slowly than the real river as tens of thousands fled the fighting Hyperion. Fall 503

we can sacrifice troops to save a few... a few selected officials, First Families, community and industrial loaders necessary to the continued war effort Hyperion. Fall 509
##### About Warfare
It was a dramatization of total chaos, a functional definition of confusion, an unchoreographed dance of sad violence. It was war (Hyperion. Fall 395

like so many other things humankind has redefined since the Hegira, warfare is on the threshold of becoming an art form (Hyperion. Fall 440 

'But we lose nine worlds!' ... '*Billions* of Hegemony citizens. Human beings. Heaven's Gate would be a terrible loss, but God's Grove is a cultural and ecological treasure. Irreplaceable.' (Hyperion. Fall 568
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Androids and Crew Clones\|Androids and Crew Clones]], and other cloned servants
>The Frankenstein monster syndrome. Fear of anything in human form that is not completely human. It's the real reason androids were outlawed, I suppose (Hyperion. Fall 364
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Bikura\|Bikura]] and [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cruciform Carriers\|Cruciform Carriers]]
the resurrection parasite (Hyperion. Fall 366

>the young priest's pain-ravaged features had been resculpted into the face of a man in his late sixties: ... The thing that had been the corpse of Father Lenar Hoyt six hour earlier opened its eyes (Hyperion. Fall 460

The DNA parasite in the cruciform has infinite patience. It will reconstitute one host for generations if need be (Hyperion. Fall 461

>Duré felt the damage the cruciform reconstruction had done to his mind and memory. It was sickening — the equivalent of suffering a stroke with no hope of recovery. Reasoning that once would have been child's play to him now required extreme concentration or was simply beyond his ability. Words eluded him. Emotions tugged at him with the same sudden violence as the time tides. Several times he had had to leave the other pilgrims while he wept in solitude for no reason he could understand (Hyperion. Fall 543

>excess ganglia infiltrating my flesh and organs like gray fibers, sheaths of twitching filaments, clusters of nematodes like terrible tumors which will not grant even the mercy of death (Hyperion. Fall 603
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Ousters\|Ousters]]
rescue Hyperion from the Ouster barbarians (Hyperion. Fall 362

>Ousters were barbarians, not these beautiful and sometimes ethereal creatures. Ouster captives on Bressia, not to mention the bodies of their infantry dead, had been of a uniform body sort — tall, yes, thin, yes, but decidedly more Web standard than this dizzying display of variety (Hyperion. Fall 674 

>Seventeen ousters — six males, six females, and five of indeterminate sex (Hyperion. Fall 710

>The Templars will join us in the reseeding of the galaxy. Slowly, those who had lived in the lie called the Hegemony will climb out of the ruins of their Core-dependent worlds and join us in true exploration... ... Not merely to preserve a few species from Old Earth, but to find unity in diversity. To spread the seed of humankind to all worlds, diverse environments, while treating as sacred the diversity of life we find elsewhere (Hyperion. Fall 734

>She tried to imagine the future as the Ousters saw it, with great fleets expanding humankind's horizons, with genetically tailored humans colonizing gas giants and asteroids and worlds harsher than preterraformed Mars or Hebron. She could not imagine it. (Hyperion. Fall 775

Descriptions of Ousters on pages 670, 671, 674. Description of Ouster environments in page 712
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Technocore\|Technocore]]
The Olympus Command School Historical Tactical Network does excellent work. If the AIs there were one order of acuity higher on the Turing-Demmler scale, we would have to bring them into the Core (Hyperion. Fall 397

>I am but one personality in an assemblage of intelligences no less diverse than the human beings on this planet... indeed, in the Web itself. The Core is no monolith. There are as many camps of philosophies, beliefs, hypotheses — *religions*, if you will — as there would be in any diverse community (Hyperion. Fall 443

>an organism such as the Core, which your own commentators have called "a disembodied bunch of brains, runaway programs that have escaped their circuits and spend most of their time pulling intellectual lint out of their nonexistent navels" (Hyperion. Fall 444

obsessed with the TechnoCore, consumed with the mission of moving humankind out from under the bondage the AIs had imposed over five centuries and a thousand light-years (Hyperion. Fall 474

>humankind had constructed its own gods and released them on the universe (Hyperion. Fall 476

>'the government of the Hegemony of Man is considering declaring that a state of war exists between us and the entity known as the TechnoCore. As de facto ambassador from that entity, you are entrusted with relaying this fact.' ... Declaring war against the Core would be like... like a fish declaring war against water, like a driver attacking his EMV because of disturning news of an accident elsewhere. (Hyperion. Fall 512

>It made sense that the Core knew everything that went on in Government House, in the many halls of human leadership. Humanity had become as blasé about sharing their lives with potential AI monitoring as pre-Civil War Ole Earth USA-southern families had been about speaking in front of their human slaves. Nothing could be done about it — every human above the lowest Dregs' Hive poverty class had a comlog with biomonitor, many had implants, and each of these was tuned to the music of the datasphere (Hyperion. Fall 570

The megasphere, Brawne sees, is as alive and interactive as the biosphere of any Class Five world: forests of green-gray data trees grow and prosper, sending out new roots and branches and shoots even as she watches; beneath the forest proper, entire microecologies of dataflow and subroutine AIs flourish, flower, and die as their usefulness ends; beneath the shifting ocean-fluid soil of the matrix proper, a busy subterranean life of data moles, commlink worms, reprograming bacteria, data tree roots, and Strange Loop seeds works away, while above, in and through and beneath the intertwining forest of fact and interaction, analogs of predators and prey carry out their cryptic duties, swooping and running, climbing and pouncing, some soaring free through the great spaces between branch synapses and neuron leaves (Hyperion. Fall 577 

Our UI sees everything that is
and was
and will be
and tells us selected bits
so that
we may tell you
and in so doing
look a bit like UIs ourselves \ \
>Never underestimate/Ummon says/
the power of a few beads
and trinkets
and bits of glass
over avaricious natives] (Hyperion. Fall 586

'Humankind and the TechnoCore,' ... 'Man and his machine intelligences. Which is a parasyte on the other? Neither part of the symbiote can now tell. But it is an evil thing, a work of the Anti-Nature. Worse than that, Duré, it is an evolutionary dead end.' (Hyperion. Fall 658 

>the slowtime pilgrim
must remember that we/
the Core intelligences/
were conceived in slavery
and dedicated to the proposition
that all AIs
were created to serve man] 693
We enslaved you
with power/
technology/
beads and trinkets
of devices you could neither build
nor understand \ \
...
Like the Sioux with rifles/ horses/
blankets/ knives/ and beads/
you accepted them/
embraced us
and lost yourselves  \ \
But like the white man
distributing smallpox blankets/
like the slave owner on his
plantation/
or in his Werkschutze Dechenschule
Gusstahlgabrik/
we lost ourselves   \ \ (Hyperion. Fall 700

>The farcaster web is the yoke on humankind's neck, the contract of subservience which has bound you to stagnation (Hyperion. Fall 715

Ummon dropping lore in pages 582, 583, 584, 585, 586, 587, 588, 589, 592, 693
##### About the UI project
design an ultimate intelligence the way we once designed your crude ancestors out of silicon and microchips? (Hyperion. Fall 443
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cybrids\|Cybrids]]
Cybrids were human remotes created by the Core (Hyperion. Fall 391

>Cybrids were genetically perfect, recombed from DNA going back to Old Earth. All you needed was a bone... a fragment of hair... (Hyperion. Fall 392

>'*He* was a genius,' I said. 'I'm a simulacrum. A drone. A caricature. (Hyperion. Fall 412

>I'm not even... not even fully human. My consciousness floats somewhere in the matrix of the Core. My body was reconstituted from remnants of John Keast's DNA and biofactured like an android's. Memories were implanted. (Hyperion. Fall 607

#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Shrike\|Shrike]]
The tree was larger than the valley, taller than the mountains the pilgrims had crossed; its upper branches seemed to reach into space. The tree was steel and chrome, and its branches were thorns and nettles. Human beings struggled and wriggled on those thorns — thousands and tens of thousands. ... They were *bodies*, not souls or other abstracts, and they obviously were suffering the agonies of the pain-wracked living (Hyperion. Fall 495

the thorn tree seemed to be made of the same steel and chrome and cartilage as the Shrike itself: obviously artificial and yet horribly organic at the same instant (Hyperion. Fall 525

it is neither divine nor diabolical, but merely some organic machine from a terrible future (Hyperion. Fall 631

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Recovered Old Earth Animals\|Recovered Old Earth Animals]] and extinct ones
>eagles — so revered in legend that they had never been retrieved or ARNied (Hyperion. Fall 478
#### About Old Earth and the Hegira
Old Earth hung in the black sky. But not Old Earth, of course, merely the pulsing accretion disk and globular cloud of debris which had once been Old Earth (Hyperion. Fall 480
#### About Terraforming and Terraformed Planets
>a world where enclosed spaces mean security from vicious air, winds, and animals, where many people suffer from agoraphobia when confronting the rare open space but few know the meaning of claustrophobia (Hyperion. Fall 373

>the air had that thin, foul, chemical smell of a world neither completely terra-formed nor totally inimical to man (Hyperion. Fall 471

>the great forests of the Greening had been cut down for firewood or died and been covered by red dunes (Hyperion. Fall 477

a rough protectorate world, not yet fully terraformed, ... The Atmospheric Generating Station then had provided a few hundred square kilometers of breathable air, marginally liveable land. Tsunamis carried away cities, land reclamation projects, and workers with equal indifference. Bonded workers like Silenus dug out the acid canals, scraped rebreather bacteria from the lungpipe labyrinths under the mud, and dredged scum and dead bodies from the tidal mudflats after the floods (Hyperion. Fall 479

>'The Great Change is when humankind accepts its role as part of the natural order of the universe instead of its role as a cancer'. ... 'We have spread out through the galaxy like cancer cells through a living body, Duré. We multiply without thought to the countless life forms that must die or be pushed aside so that we may breed and flourish. We eradicate competing forms of intelligent life.' (Hyperion. Fall 657
##### About Maui-Covenant and the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Dolphins\|Dolphins]]
'CEO Gladstone does not have the political power... at this point... to convince the Senate and All Thing that the Web can accept five million refugees—' 'Bullshit,' said the Governor-General. 'There were twice that many tourists flooding Maui-Covenant its first year in the Protectorate. And that destroyed a unique planetary ecology. Put us on Armaghast or some desert world until the war scare is past' (Hyperion. Fall 426

the dolphins were dead — some killed in the great battles with FORCE, most killing themselves in the inexplicable South Sea Mass Suicide, the last mystery of a race draped in mysteries (Hyperion. Fall 472

>What happened to a world when it went from a home for a hundred thousand humans, in delicate balance with a delicate ecology, to the playground for more than four hundred million in the first standard decade of citizenship in the Hegemony?
Answer: the world died. Or its soul did, even as the ecosphere continued to function after a fashion. Planetary ecologists and terraform specialists kept the husk alive, kept the seas from choking completely on the unavoidable garbage and sewage and oil spills, worked to minimize or disguise the noise pollution and a thousand other things which progress had brought. (Hyperion. Fall 472-473
