---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/3-simmons/2-1-endymion/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Hegemony\|Hegemony]]

I had tried to imagine a world where everyone wore implants and could access the datasphere whenever they wanted ... for most of the billions of members of the Hegemony, life must have been like an endless stimsim of visual, auditory, and printed information. (Endymion 126

>Web English had been the standard for so many centuries that it was almost shocking to hear words that bore no meaning (Endymion 321
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Pax\|Pax]]

crossdamn (Endymion 10

a gold Pax double cross hanging around his neck and the red welt of the actual cruciform on his upper chest. M. Herrig was a born-again Christian. (Endymion 11

As born-again Christians in good standing with the Pax, none of the four could be forced to testify under the influence of Truthtell or any other chemical or electronic form of verification (Endymion 15

the Pax controls all of Hyperion, all spacecraft, the spacelanes, and every world of what used to be the Hegemony (Endymion 25

>The Church and Pax had banned all true AIs more than two centuries before, and after seeing how the TechnoCore had helped the Ousters destroy the Hegemony, most of the trillions of people on a thousand devastated worlds had agreed wholeheartedly (Endymion 39

>Two or three hundred known worlds had willingly joined the Pax. Trillions of humans had willingly been baptized in the Church (Endymion 56

>the largest change has been the granting of virtual immortality. Because of that, the population growth is regulated carefully (Endymion 118

he does not ask them again if they are prepared to die again (Endymion 145

>the Pax arrived early and offered both the Cruciform and the birth-control regime that goes with it (Endymion 157

a Pax priest ... beseeched de Soya's parents to bend their Mariaist principles and allow the dying child to accept the cruciform before it was too late (Endymion 160

By the rules of the Church and the laws of the Pax, someone who suffered braindeath before receiving the cross could not be revived artificially to receive it (Endymion 160

What's a divorce case? (Endymion 194

is said to have died the true death and found true immortality 282
the Church and Pax have brought an era of unprecedented peace and prosperity to humanity (Endymion 335

no resurrection for heathens (Endymion 376
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Bikura\|Bikura]] and [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cruciform Carriers\|Cruciform Carriers]]

>Still shaken and pale from his three-day resurrection (Endymion 15

>I tapped the cortical come-along now permanently attached to my temple. 'I don't need a cruciform symbiote embedded in me to put me in a deeper slavery.' (Endymion 17

their robots still mined for the unique cruciform symbiotes (Endymion 33

>The man's skin flistens as if he has just received grafts — or as if he is newborn. The flesh looks pink and raw to de Soya, almost burned, and the cruciform on the courier's chest is livid and twice normal size (Endymion 43

>these are not standard acceleration couches. These are unpadded steel trays in human form, more like autopsy slabs than couches. The trays have a lip — to keep fluid from sloshing under high-g, he is sure — and he realizes that the only compensating containment field in the ship would be around these couches — to keep the pulverized flesh, bone, and brain matter from floating away in the zero-g intervals after final deceleration (Endymion 45

The cruciform resurrected them much as it did today in the era of the Pax, only in the priest's tale the side effects included irreversible brain damage after several resurrections and the disappearance of all sexual organs and impulses. The Bikura were retarded eunuchs — all of them. (Endymion 53 

De Soya could see why the Church held suicide as one of its most mortal sins — punishable by immediate excommunication — since the glow of nearness to God was so much stronger after tasting the ashes of death. Resurrection could easily become addictive if the punishment for suicide were not so terrible (Endymion 61

'I've died before, son.' De Soya fights off a wave of giddiness (Endymion 102

the man in front of them is facing several hundred deaths and difficult resurrections. As far as they know, no one since the beginning of the Sacrament of Resurrection has ever submitted to such a cycle of pain and rebirth (Endymion 181

>They grow weary of death. ... Each time now upon his resurrection, de Soys stands naked in front of a mirror, seeing his skin raw and glistening like someone who has been flayed alive, gingerly touching the now-livid, now-crimson cruciform under the flesh of his chest. (Endymion 233

shakes, emotional swings, and minor ailments (Endymion 235

Father Captain de Soya welcomes the coming death as a means of escape (Endymion 236

merely a good-sized segment of the cross we all bear. Many a good Catholic has been resurrected from a few centimeters of intact cruciform and a bit of flesh that can be DNA-typed and grown to order (Endymion 281

the cruciform sacrament is truly miraculous — it can bring shattered and blasted bodies back to life, return the shape and souls of born-again Christians who have been shot, burned, starved, drowned, asphyxiated, stabbed, crushed, or ravaged by disease — but it has its limits: too much time of decomposition defeats it, as would a thermonuclear explosion of a ship's in-system drive (Endymion 296

>*The* Faustian bargain, ... All the Church had to do to gain the universe was sell its soul (Endymion 382

In page 382, how the church got the cruciform from the Core (by killing Duré). 
##### About Religion

'You have not accepted Our Lord...' ... 'I haven't accepted the cruciform, Father. It might not be the same thing.' (Endymion 16

will you be hearing confessions before we die this time? (Endymion 146

The Church does not sanctify suicides, but the Church knows that little is certain in life or death. Or, at least, de Soya knows this, even if the Church does not (Endymion 241

*If there is a god*, I thought, *It's a painkiller*. (Endymion 268 

Teilhard is explained in page 343
##### About Death

Technically, according to the ancient enigma of quantum physics, I am now neither dead nor alive. I am in the suspended state of overlapping probability waves once reserved for the cat in Schrödinger's thought experiment. Because the hull of the cat box is little more than position-fused energy ready to explode at the slightest intrusion, no one will ever look inside to see if I am dead or alive. Theoretically, no one is directly responsible for my execution (Endymion 6

The comlog computer had a random-number generator. When the number generated was a prime smaller than seventeen, the deathwand beam would be activated (Endymion 18
##### About cybernetic modifications
his tactical shunt in place so he and the ship are effectively one (Endymion 141
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Templars\|Templars]]

most of the two-hundred-meter-tall recombinant redwood and sequoia forests that had originally attracted the Brotherhood of the Muir to this world are gone, burned away in the planetwide forest fire that had brought on the nuclear winter (Endymion 385-386

>Templars had fancied themselves the ecological conscience of the Hegemony — always inserting their unsolicited opinion into any terraforming effort (Endymion 386
#### About cryogenic fugue

>The man was lying on a flowfoam hoverchair bed that had been adjusted to a sitting position. Tubes, IV drips, monitor filaments, and organic-looking umbilicals ran from the equipment to the wizened figure in the chair. I say 'wizened', but in truth the man's body looked almost mummified, the skin wrinkled like the folds of an old leather jacket, the skull mottled and almost perfectly bald, the arms and legs emaciated to the point of being vestigial appendages. ... His parchment skin had a blue cast to it that made me think *android* for a moment, but then I saw the different shade of blue, the faint glow of the palms, ribs, and forehead, and I realized I was looking at a real human who had enjoyed — or suffered — centuries of Poulsen treatments (Endymion 20
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Indigenies\|Indigenies]] as valued against citizens

How to explain the suspicion bred into my nomadic clan through generations of being the expatriates, the outsiders, the indigenies? (Endymion 52

most of these indigenie poachers've never been baptized. Wouldn't be poachers if they had, now, would they? (Endymion 249

Raul yapping about his past in page 34. 
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Chitchatuk\|Chitchatuk]]

>our band loves all those who walk on two feet and respect the path of the prime (Endymion 358

Page 322 has a lot of the information on their circular way of living
##### About dehumanisation

fires a seeker microfilament into his brain, the seeker probe finding its way to a precise region of his cerebral cortex (Endymion 347
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Androids and Crew Clones\|Androids and Crew Clones]], and other cloned servants

>Blue skin. Bright-blue eyes. No hair. He... it... had to be the first android that I had ever seen (Endymion 20

>Androids had been, after all, considered something less than human centuries ago when they had been biofactured for use during the Hegira expansion (Endymion 27

>I am not programmed at all... not like a machine. Except for several synthetic protheses — to augment strength, for instance, or to provide resistance to radiation — I have no artificial parts. I was merely taught deference to fulfil my role (Endymion 47

Very few human beings now alive have seen one of my race (Endymion 47

>We are blue because no known race of humankind was blue at the time of my biofacture, and my designers felt it imperative to keep us visually separate from humans (Endymion 49

>I was designed to serve humanity. I do it well. I take pleasure in my work (Endymion 49

>Try as I might to treat him as an equal, A. Bettik insisted on acting like a servant. I resolved to quit being an egalitarian horse's ass about it and to let him act any way he wanted (Endymion 113

>We androids were shipped in cargo holds, stacked like frozen sides of beef, I am told (Endymion 113

I did not know if androids *could* dream (Endymion 128

centuries of servitude (Endymion 126

>he was, after all, conditioned by bioprogramming and centuries of habit to defer to human decisions (Endymion 148

>we androids are not programmed like machines... not even set with basic parameters and asimotivavors like the early DNA AIs which evolved into the Core intelligences... but certain inhibitions were... ah... strongly urged on us when our instincts were being designed. One, of course, is to obey humans whenever reasonable and to keep them from coming to harm. This asimotivator is older than robotics or bioengineering, I am told. But another... instinct... is not to change my skin color (Endymion 152

they just designed his skin to be a little tougher than ours — it can act like a pressure suit for short periods, even in hard vacuum — and he can hold his breath a bit longer, that's all (Endymion 221

>I say "M. Bettik" because your honorific does you no honor, sir. It sets you apart from humanity by falsely inventing false categories. (Endymion 344

*Do androids die like humans?* I shook the thought away. His blood was very red. (Endymion 401

the artificial man (Endymion 406

A. Bettik explains hoe androids are biofactured in pages 349 and 350.
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Ousters\|Ousters]]

The Ouster trees have no defenses against the Pax warships, and the encounter might be described more accurately as slaughter than battle. (Endymion 29

Ouster-tailored trees, each at least half a kilometer long, move in an elaborate choreography along the plane of the ecliptic (Endymion 29

Ouster variants are visible — humanoid shapes with silver-reflective skin and micron-thin butterfly wings extending hundreds of meters (Endymion 29

>Space-tailored Ousters — 'Lucifer's Angels' as the Pax forces have contemptuously called them for centuries — are caught in the explosions like translucent moths in a flame (Endymion 30

>They were trained as knights of the Church, defenders of the Pax, not as destroyers of beauty or murderers of unarmed life-forms, even if those life-forms were tailored Ousters who had surrendered their souls (Endymion 31

Ousters were the ultimate bogeymen (Endymion 72

the Ousters and their strange attempt to adapt themselves to space the way these tube worms and 'canths and bottom-hugging species have adapted themselves to eternal darkness and terrible pressures (Endymion 284

The Ousters are... strange. Their attempts to adapt to odd environments... to space even... are... blasphemous. But their ships are not fast (Endymion 295

>already they have used subcellular machinery to make themselves something more and less than human. Already they have traded their immortal souls for the machinery to adapt to space, to eat sunlight, to exist like... like plants in darkness (Endymion 337
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Technocore\|Technocore]]

His reading, instruction and faith have taught him that the TechnoCore had been evil incarnate, simply the most active manifestation of the Evil One in modern human history (Endymion 64

the Church prohibits thinking machines — true AIs (Endymion 118

>You've been thinking silicon ... but our ship's AI core is completely organic — the old DNA type of processor banks — if you stun us into unconsciousness, you stun it (Endymion 169

the farcasters were some sort of plot by the AIs to use human brains — neurons — as a sort of giant DNA computer thingy. They were parasites on us each time a human transited the farcasters (Endymion 222

The same mechanical evil which destroyed Old Earth, which preyed upon humanity's minds and souls through their parasitic farcasters (Endymion 336

>And what was *our* DNA designed to do for the first few hundred million years, my son? Eat? Kill? Procreate? Were we any less ignoble in our beginnings than the pre-Hegira silicon and DNA-based AIs? (Endymion 343

The Core had cared nothing for humankind's visceral urge to move about, to travel without energy expenditure or time lapse, but the farcaster Web had been the perfect bait to weave the very fabric of those teeming hundreds of billions of primitive, organic brains into something useful (Endymion 359

The Pax is after us because the Core tells it we're dangerous to them (Endymion 381

In page 269, first hints at the genocide of non-Christians by the TechnoCore. More in pages 367 and 368. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Nemes and others\|Nemes and others]]

>A new breed of warrior, bred for the renewed Army of Christ endymion 339
It sounds as if the Church is answering Ouster nanotechnology with biomodifications of its own (Endymion 339

her compact body buffeted but not damaged by the terrible deceleration (Endymion 346

Nemes stands, shoulders two hundred gravities (Endymion 346

To an outside observer the compact woman ... suddenly becomes a reflective quicksilver sculpture in human form (Endymion 347

>I hope she was not the Church's creature, ... If she was, then my Church has become the monster. (Endymion 417

Nemes being a creechur in pages 346, 347
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cybrids\|Cybrids]]

it was the pre-Hegira poet my father's cybrid was cloned from, of course, but my father's sensibilities were in the poem (Endymion 216
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Aenea\|Aenea]]

>We are almost certain that this... fetus... was in touch with the TechnoCore via that cybrid persona (Endymion 64

>orphan of time (Endymion 107

>I'm somewhat of a half-breed, the child of a Lusian woman and a cloned cybrid male (Endymion 126

>Aenea was a vegetarian — she had eaten mostly salads during the two weeks aboard ship (Endymion 200

my father tried to explain it to me before I was born (Endymion 224


>the cybrid-spawned *succubus* must be terminated. Destroyed. The virus eradicated from the body of Christ as the first step toward the corrective surgery which is to come (Endymion 339

>I came unglued in time for a minute. Of course you don't love me. I forgot when we were... who we were to each other now (Endymion 381
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Shrike\|Shrike]]

Description of the shrike in pages 389-390. 
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Recovered Old Earth Animals\|Recovered Old Earth Animals]] and extinct ones

hundreds of wealthy hunters — many from offworld — come there every year for the ducks. Most of the protomallards died off quickly after their regeneration and release from the seedship seven centuries earlier ... but a few ducks survived (Endymion 9

'Lions and tigers and bears,'... Those were Old Earth animals. I don't think that any of them made the Hegira. I don't think any of them were still around to make the trip — not even their stored DNA — when Old Earth crumbled into its black hole after the Big Mistake of '08. (Endymion 225
#### About Terraforming and Terraformed Planets

>Not enough oxygen to support humans — mostly CO2 atmosphere — and it was never enough of a success to terraform, so either the environments are tailored or the people are (Endymion 121

>it is a largely agricultural world — huge automated farms covering much of the planet — and it feeds Vector (Endymion 157

sick with an offworld retrovirus that swept like a scythe through the colony ranching region (Endymion 159

seeing if the world is truly worth terraforming (Endymion 164

a once-miserable world terraformed to shade trees and comfort in the days of the Web, now largely fallen back to boiling mud, pestilent swamps, unbreathable atmosphere, and the blazing radiation source of Vega Prime in the sky (Endymion 236

the planet has never been seriously colonized or terraformed except for random RNA seeding during the early days of the Hegira, and appears to have been part of the River Tethys tour strictly for scenic and animal-viewing purposes (Endymion 237

the centuries spent terraforming the planet have produced a world high on the adaptive Solmev Scale (Endymion 242
