---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/3-simmons/2-2-the-rise-of-endymion/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Hegemony\|Hegemony]]

The Hegemony had known how to treat cancer, but most of the gene-tailoring knowledge and technology had been lost after the Fall. And what had not been lost had been made too expensive to share with the masses ... Medicine had slipped back several centuries. (Endymion. Rise 536

But why *cure* a fatal disease when one could recover from it by dying and being resurrected by the cruciform? Even some genetically derived diseases were 'cured' by the cruciform during its restructuring of the body during resurrection (Endymion. Rise 537

I had never been on a world where the majority of humans spoke anything but a version of Web English (Endymion. Rise 671 
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Pax\|Pax]]

In an interstellar society where the Church ruled all but absolutely, news awaited not only independent confirmation but official permission to exist (Endymion. Rise 443

With its population of one and a half billion souls, all born-again Christians carrying the cruciform, most employed by the Vatican or the huge civilian, military, or mercantile bureaucracy of the Pax state, the planet Pacem paused to listen with some interest (Endymion. Rise 444

Pope Julius had died eight times before. The Pointiff's heart was weak, and he would allow no repair of it — either by surgery or nanoplasty. It was his contention that a pope should live his natural life span and — upon his death — that a new pope should be elected. The fact that this same Pope had been reelected eight times did not dissuade him from his opinion (Endymion. Rise 444

the Executive Council of the Pancapitalist League of Independent Catholic Transstellar Trade Organisations, more commonly known as the Pax Mercantilus (Endymion. Rise 446

>Pope Julius had excommunicated Kenzo Isozaki's predecessor for a lesser miscalculation, revoking the sacrament of the cruciform and condemning the Mercantilus leader to a life of separation from the Catholic community — which, of course, was every man, 
woman and child on Pacem and on a majority of the Pax worlds — followed by the true death (Endymion. Rise 448-449

>people and adventurers willing to spend months in cryogenic sleep and years of time-debt traveling by Mercantilus transport between the stars, smug in their cruciform certainty that job and home and family would be waiting in their steady-state Christian universe when they returned (Endymion. Rise 514

>Capitalism is regaining power throughout the Pax. It is the true glue that holds the hundreds of worlds together (Endymion. Rise 582

>in a Pax universe where the vast majority of individuals chose the cruciform — chose to attempt to be immortal — birth control was a given. One could apply to Pax authorities for the antidote after marriage or simply buy it on the black market when it was time to start a family (Endymion. Rise 708

>The Pax universe was ordered and static, unchanging and sterile. Children bring chaos and clutter and an infinite potential for the future that was anathema to the Pax (Endymion. Rise 940
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Bikura\|Bikura]] and [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cruciform Carriers\|Cruciform Carriers]]

the power controlling the cruciform controls the human universe (Endymion. Rise 485

>his body and brain useless appendages to a cruciform of horrific pain radiating through his body 584get it off. Get it *off*. Will die a real... Catholic... again... in you... can help me... get it... OFF!
Doesn't matter... doesn't matter if I die... (Endymion. Rise 811 

In page 455 it is revealed that they kill Father Duré every time. 
##### About Religion

>our sacred obligation to keep humanity human (Endymion. Rise 521

>Our Lord's wish... nay, commandment... that mankind remain in the form and visage of mankind, and not be denied by deliberate mutation and mutilation (Endymion. Rise 521
##### About Death

No human being would sully his or her soul by executing me; I was to be transferred to a Schrödinger cat box in orbit around the quarantined labyrinth world of Armaghast. The immutable laws of physics and quantum chance would execute the sentence (Endymion. Rise 926
##### About cybernetic modifications
In page 476, Farrell has spy devices implanted into Monsignor Oddi without his knowledge. 
##### About biological modifications
'Appendicitis...' Those useless artifacts had long since been genetailored out of humanity (Endymion. Rise 532
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Templars\|Templars]]

>that our prophecies begin to be realized this day and that all species of beloved life — humanity no more than the soft-shelled turtle or Mare Infinitus Lantern Mouth, the jumping spider and the tesla tree, the Old Earth racoon and the Maui-Covenant Thomas hawk — that all species beloved of life join in rebirth of respect as distinct partners in the universe's growing cycle of life (Endymion. Rise 850
#### About cryogenic fugue
I'm a freak of nature. Pay your two bits and come into the sideshow... see the oldest man in the galaxy... see the mummy that walks and talks... sort of... see the disgusting thing that refuses to die (Endymion. Rise 807

Description of Silenus in page 805
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Indigenies\|Indigenies]] as valued against citizens

On page 684, the Pax's treatment of Maui-Covenant against the rebels
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Amoiete Spectrum Helix\|Amoiete Spectrum Helix]]

>I knew that she was named Dem Ria; that her primary marriage partner was the other woman, Dem Loa; that the thir member of their tripartite marriage was the much younger man, Alem Mikail Dem Alem (Endymion. Rise 536

In page 538, how the Pax is trying to force the Amoiete to convert to heal the kid's cancer, but destroying their family arrangement. 
##### About dehumanisation

The man's eyelids began to flutter within seconds. He was a small man, muscular but compact, and there were no marks or bruises on his body. His wrists and ankles were bound by sticktite. A cortical shunt had been implanted just behind his left ear and an almost invisible bundle of microfibers ran from it to the console (Endymion. Rise 478

this time the icon Farrell activated could be translated as *hot wire behind the right eye*. (Endymion. Rise 479

>the orders'd been to bring in two samples of everything... adult males, space-adapted, unadapted; adult females, pregnant, and not pregnant; a couple of Ouster kids, pre-puberty, and infants... both sexes. So Kluge's team and ours got busy, stunning and bagging 'em. (Endymion. Rise 549

>those caverns were like homes... beds and cubbies and flatscreen vid sets and kitchens... not things we're used to thinkin' Ousters have, Father. But most of those caves were... ... Nurseries. Wee beds with wee babies in 'em... not Ouster monsters, Father, not those pale, shiny things we fight against, not those damned Lucifer's angels with wings a hundred klicks across in the starlight... just... babies. (Endymion. Rise 550

>His Holiness has long since decreed that Ousters have surrendered their humanity to nanodevices they release in their blood, to the changes they have made with their chromosomes... (Endymion. Rise 551

In page 550, Sgt. Gregorious confesses feeling guilt at killing in an Ouster birthing rock
##### About Warfare

Countless trillions of synapses were fried and scrambled in an instant. Tens of thousands of Ousters died without knowing that they were under attack (Endymion. Rise 546
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Androids and Crew Clones\|Androids and Crew Clones]], and other cloned servants

>I was ashamed of my thought then: *Why send a human being... your best friend... when the android can go?* (Endymion. Rise 475

>Androids were not literally *programmed* to be stiff and subservient — they were, after all, living, organic beings, not machines — but between RNA-training and long practice, they were hopelessly formal creatures (Endymion. Rise 493

the android nods. His blue countenance looks precisely as I had remembered it from our trip out from Hyperion, almost ten of his years ago. What did I expect — an android to age? (Endymion. Rise 662

>Tiny templar servants whom Aenea whisperingly described as crew clones (Endymion. Rise 849

>I hugged him. Androids were never comfortable with such shows of emotion between servants and the humans they had been biofactured to serve (Endymion. Rise 967

The whole observers stuff is foreshadowed by a loredrop on pages 749, 750
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Ousters\|Ousters]]

>The Ousters are breeding like fruit flies out there in the dark (Endymion. Rise 481

Crusade. Glory. A final resolution of the Ouster problem. Death beyond imagining. Destruction beyond imagining. (Endymion. Rise 492

>a Crusade against the inhuman travesties the Ousters are breeding out there in the darkness. His Holiness has stated in his Crusade Encyclical that these unholy mutations are to be eliminated from God's universe. *There are no civilian Ousters.* (Endymion. Rise 508

>they evolved from common Earth-human origins, just as the AI TechnoCore did. All three races are orphans in the storm (Endymion. Rise 541

>The Ousters will invade again... this time successfully. They have long since succumbed to nanotech mutation. They are no longer human. With no Church or Pax or Pax Fleet to protect humanity, the Ousters will seek out these pockets of surviving human DNA and infect them with the nanotech plague. The human species... as we have known it and as the Church has sought to protect it... will cease to exist within a few standard years (Endymion. Rise 640

nanotech life-form colonies will evolve according to their own agenda, fashioning the human form to their own whims, and only they will be in control of their destiny. But that destiny will no longer be human. (Endymion. Rise 641

Description of the biosphere in page 832. Careful lore of the Ousters, their story and mission on pages 851-852
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Technocore\|Technocore]]

>For as far as she could see down the infinitely straight corridor, the walls of the tunnel had been carved into a row of horizontal stone slabs. On each slab was a naked human body. The slabs and bodies continued on and on into darkness (Endymion. Rise 503

>frozen flesh, pale flesh, barcodes on the soles of their feet (Endymion. Rise 630

>the human beings transported from the worlds listed by Cardinal Du Noyer were... rendered lifeless... by Core Technology, using Core robot spacecraft, and are being stored using Core techniques (Endymion. Rise 634

the Core... the Humanist elements in the Core... have perfected a method of putting human beings in temporary stasis, neither alive nor dead... (Endymion. Rise 642

the thought of those damned AIs using human brains like neural bubbles in their fucking project made me want to throw up (Endymion. Rise 541

>we've been using *their* mental power for our own purposes for more than a thousand years. I don't think that we asked permission of their ancestors when we created the first silicon AIs... or the first magnetic bubble and DNA entities (Endymion. Rise 541

The Core serves no one (Endymion. Rise 581

from the very first appearance of human-created artificial life and intelligence, such a life was parasitic. It was more than parasitic — it was hyperparasitic (Endymion. Rise 694

the Core had multiple sensory inputs and could create neural networks, but what it required for nonparasitic evolution was a constant and coordinated system of neural feedback circuits — that is, eyes, ears, tongues, limbs, fingers, toes... bodies. (Endymion. Rise 698 

>The Core wants to keep human beings in the form and shape they're comfortable with and so does the Church. They define being human largely by counting arms, legs, and so forth.  (Endymion. Rise 795

>We have always been your masters. You are rotting flesh wrapped around chimpanzee brains... gibbering primates decaying toward death from the moment of your birth. Your only role in the universe was as midwives to a higher form of self-awareness. A truly immortal life-form. 934

Some explanation about the Lions, Tigers and Bears in pages 469, 697. More info on the amount of dead bodies on page 505. Councilor Albedo threatens Isozaki with pain (shock-collar analogy) in pages 583, 584.  Councilor Albedo lies for a while and spews lore on pages 634, 635, 636, 637, 638, 639. Core lore said by Aenea in her speeches in pages 698, 699
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Nemes and others\|Nemes and others]]

>one second he was flesh and bone and blood and skin and hair, the next he was a chrome-silver sculpture in the form of a man (Endymion. Rise 450

The Noble Guard at this point seemed to consist of cloned twins — all thin men and women with lank hair, sallow complexions, and dead gazes (Endymion. Rise 519

Bladed fingers dug through synflesh and muscle, seeking one of Gyges's hearts (Endymion. Rise 601

>The clawed hand within him pulled out ropes of intestine, kilometers of microfiber optics. (Endymion. Rise 601

>I was reminded that the effect of her gaze was like being stared at by empty eye sockets. Nothing human lived there. (Endymion. Rise 816

Nemes gets spooky scary in page 819
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Cybrids\|Cybrids]]

the cybrid's personality template had been reconstructed from a pre-Hegira human named Frank Lloyd Wright who had worked in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, AD (Endymion. Rise 458

the question of whether human beings have a soul which leaves the body after death has yet to be definitely answered. Yet in Mr Wright's case, we know that his cybrid personality still exists separate from his body — or at least did from some time after the moment of his death (Endymion. Rise 458
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Aenea\|Aenea]]

>I was chosen simply because I was the first child of the Core and humankind (Endymion. Rise 567

>There's hope for the Spectrum Helix people. And for all the thousands of other cultures which have reverted or sprung up since the Fall. The Hegemony meant homogeneity, Raul. The Pax means even more. The human genome... the human soul... distrusts homogeneity (Endymion. Rise 569

she is the spawn of a tailored cybrid. The persona of her cybrid father interfaced with her when she was in her mother's womb. Her mind and body have been interwoven with rogue elements of the Core since before birth (Endymion. Rise 639

>I am that mix. I bring the genetic ability to access the Void from the TechnoCore and the too-seldom-used human ability to perceive the universe through empathy. For better or worse, those who drink of my blood shall never see the world or the universe the same again (Endymion. Rise 752)

>This is not metaphysics, my dear friends. This is a mutant viral agent. Be warned that you will never be able to wear the cruciform of the Pax, nor will your children nor their children's children. This basic change in the soul of your genes and chromosomes will ban you from that form of physical longevity forever (Endymion. Rise 788

>Almost everything interesting in the human experience i the result of an individual experiencing, experimenting, explaining, and sharing ... A hive mind would be the ancient television broadcasts, or life at the height of the datasphere... consensual idiocy (Endymion. Rise 795

>'Why are you doing this, kiddo? Not just so we can all become like the Ousters and catch sunlight in our wings. I mean... it was beautiful... but I *like* planets. I like dirt under my boots. I like just being... human. Being a man.' ... 'I like planets too. And I like being human... just being a woman. It's not for some Utopian evolution of humankind into Ousters angels or Seneschai empaths that I'm doing... what I have to do. ... Just for the chance to choose, ... Just for the opportunity to continue being human, whatever that means to each person who chooses.' (Endymion. Rise 909

This degree of love of life and on one another is granted, I saw for once and for ever, not to immortals, but to those who live briefly and always under the shadow of death and loss (Endymion. Rise 949

Aenea explains to Raul why biological and cultural stagnation is bad in pages 798, 799.
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Shrike\|Shrike]]

>All right, a knight. And this cybrid, Void Which Binds-connected, ARNied, DNA-engineered, nanotech-enhanced, terribly mutated knight... it starts with the personality of a single warrior, does it not? (Endymion. Rise 859

>Yes, Colonel. Parts of your persona... but only *parts* of it... will be incorporated into the living construct called the Shrike (Endymion. Rise 860
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Alien Fauna\|Alien Fauna]]

>in this zero-gravity Ouster pod there were the other people who were not people at all, at least from my frame of reference: such as the willowy green beings who were introduced by Aenea as LLeeoonn and OOeeaall, two of the few surviving Seneschai empaths from Hebron — *alien and intelligent beings*. (Endymion. Rise 836

>the Templars and Ousters have been working to preserve such hunted sentient species the way the colonists on Maui-Covenant tried to save the Old Earth dolphins (Endymion. Rise 841

>the Akerataeli themselves are a perfect example of a swarm organism, a hive mind... none of the disc-entities alone is sentient... in parallel, they are brilliant. The sky squids and other ex-Jovian-world creatures have been reproducing as needed here for more than seven hundred standard years (Endymion. Rise 865

I could not imagine the diversity of cultures and life-forms throughout this Biosphere (Endymion. Rise 875

Longer description of Seneschain empaths in page 836
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/3. Simmons/Bodies/Recovered Old Earth Animals\|Recovered Old Earth Animals]] and extinct ones

>The seas around the fern islands of Fuji were thick with sharks descended from the DNA recipes and frozen embryos of the early Bussard seedships (Endymion. Rise 580

>On the hundreds of worlds explored and colonized during and after the Hegira, most of the indigenous life discovered had been plants and a few very simple organisms, such as the radiant gossamers in Hyperion. The few large, evolved animal forms — the Lantern Mouths on Mare Infinitus, say, or the zeplins of Whirl — tended to be hunted to extinction. The more common result was a world filled with a few indigenous life-forms and a myriad of human-adapted species. Humanity had terraformed all these worlds, bringing its bacteria and earthworms and fish and birds and land animals in raw DNA form, defrosting embryos in the early seedships, building birthing factories in the later expansions. The result had been much as on Hyperion — vital indigenous plants such as the tesla trees and chalma and weirwood and some surviving local insects coexisting with thriving Old Earth transplants and biotailored adapts such as triaspen, everblues, oak trees, mallards, sharks, hummingbirds, and deer. We were not used to alien animals (Endymion. Rise 612

>bands of renegade ARNists who were attempting to bring back all recorded species of Old Earth dinosaur (Endymion. Rise 683

there were violent predators there, evolved and unleashed during the centuries of accelerated and self-directed ARNying experimentation: mutant carrion-breed packs and burrowing night terrors, thirty-meter-long grass serpents descended from those from Hyperion's Sea of Grass and Fuji rock tigers, smart wolves, and IQ-enhanced grizzlies (Endymion. Rise 686-687
#### About Old Earth and the Hegira

>the other islands of humanity huddled around cybrid figures from the human past (the gathering in Israel and New Palestine around the cybrid Jesus of Nazareth was a memorable group to visit) (Endymion. Rise 465
#### About Terraforming and Terraformed Planets

>Heaven's Gate is a hellhole — poison atmosphere, acid rain, endless mud, and sulfur flats. ... The planet still holds a fortune in heavy metals and chemicals. So we have sold it. (Endymion. Rise 481

I remember when the sky was sick yellow, the air was all but unbreathable, it was cold all the time, and the rain never ended. A marginal world then, Pacem. The only reason the old Hegemony ever allowed the Church to settle there. (Endymion. Rise 521

the first attempted terraforming, the first failed terraforming — a world bypassed after the black-hole death of Old Earth because ... no one wanted to live on the rusty sphere of permafrost when the galaxy offered a near-infinite number of prettier, healthier, more viable worlds (Endymion. Rise 552

>this world had been a Hegemony terraforming failure, abandoned to its encroaching methane-ammonia glaciers and icecrystal hurricanes, its dwindling number of colonists retreating to its biodomes and orbital construction shacks. But its people — mostly Suni Muslim engineers from the failed Trans-African Genetic Reclamation Project — stubbornly refused to die during the Fall, and ended up terraforming Groombridge Dyson D into a Laplandic tundra world with breathable air and adapted-Old Earth flora and fauna, including wooly mammoths wandering the equatorial highlands (Endymion. Rise 686

In page 766, the Pax fucks up Mars and the Martians respond by giving in to nanotech. 
