---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/some-information/","tags":["gardenEntry"],"dg-note-properties":{}}
---

This is an incomplete mirror of the Obsidian Vault that I use to organise my research; I've ommited the notes that contain gibberish written to myself or uninteresting reminders. Let me give a run-down of my folders: 'Chapters' is for my projected chapters (shocker) although I use it mostly to mark sources so there's not much over there. 'Primary Bibliography' is what it says on the tin, with quotes that I plan on citing/have cited, as well as the 'bodies' folders which categorise the types of embodiment found in the novels and stories (I use this later to work on my graphs). 

A lot of the citations are marked (bold, italics, other markdown functions) in some way which makes sense in my head but isn't explained here since this is, after all, a personal vault—don't worry about it. Same with the secondary bibliography. I'm hoping here that since I only have noted down useful quotes alongside their page numbers, none of this pings as a copyright infringement (it shouldn't but who knows, really). Terminology contains blank notes used only for backlinking and graph view purposes, so don't expect to find anything in there. 

Formatting is, in general, terribly inconsistent, because this is a workspace and not a wiki: often my priority is speed instead of neatness, especially because there is a lot of data here and some of it is old-ish (from my BA and MA dissertation days) so re-formatting it would be a waste of my time. Besides, I'm working fast: this (and by this I mean this programmed monter-amalgamation of my notes) is not really part of my work but a pet project, so I'm working on it in the margins of everything else. Some backlinks don't lead anywhere because I have not published the file yet; there's always a reason for that, be patient.

I'm making this public not because I think it'll be a useful tool for anyone else but to show my working methods and the technological assemblages that inform my discourse. It's chaotic and profoundly amateur (I'm not a programmer, as you can probably tell) but it's a move towards academic and technological transparency, open-access resistance, public making a mess of things, etcetera. If I've been very brave and shown this to any professor, please excuse everything about this. 

Anyway, hey, if you're reading this I've managed to learn techie stuff enough to make this work! Really cyberpunk 'guy on the chair' of me to learn how to use GitHub at all, I think. Browse as much as you want using the folders to the left to find files, or you can follow backlinks for a more natural progression :). On the top right is the local graph (shows how the file you're looking at is connected) and if you click on the small globe icon inside it you can see the entire graph. 
