---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/5-hamilton/1-the-reality-dysfunction/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Full citation: Hamilton, Peter F. The Reality Dysfunction. 1996. Pan Books, 2018
## Quotes
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Adamists\|Adamists]]: 
His neural nanonics relayed information ... directly into his brain (Reality Dysfunction 1)

Nanonic membrane supplements in his body (Reality Dysfunction 4)

her neural nanonics had damped down the worst of the pain (Reality Dysfunction 10)

retinal implants (Reality Dysfunction 61)

ordered his neural nanonics to override his pacemaker, nulling the adrenaline's effect (Reality Dysfunction 72-73)

shut-off for nerves below the knees ... shunting a mild tranquilizer program into primary mode to calm his inflamed thoughts (Reality Dysfunction 75)

them and their emotions locked inside impenetrable bone, you never knew quite what they felt (Reality Dysfunction 119)

I'm also a Saldana, or at least I have their genetic super-heritage, which means I'll live for damn near two centuries, my IQ is way above normal, and I've got the same kind of internal strengthening you have ... we're a breed above, us Saldanas (Reality Dysfunction 204)

he alternated fifty years in entropy-free stasis, and five years 'bumming round' the Confederation (Reality Dysfunction 267) about Ashly's sucky immortality

She had been trained in general covert fieldwork, but they had been virtually bred for it, geneering and nanonic supplements combining to make them formidable fighting machines (Reality Dysfunction 645)

the Saldanas eradicated the gay gene from their DNA three hundred years ago (Reality Dysfunction 730)

Neural nanonics overrode all natural human feelings of panic, enforcing a smooth threat response from his body (Reality Dysfunction 970)

It seemed heartless, callous even, wrapping Bev's suffering away behind an artificial cliff of binary digits (Reality Dysfunction 992)

for this I will buy you the best, the greatest, clone body in Tranquillity (Reality Dysfunction 1007)

In page 484, Marie is refused for not having neural nanonics. Check page 596 for info about geneering and Norfolk, which is pastoral and anti-tech. Pages 1013 and 1014 have information about geneering and birth. 
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Cosmoniks\|Cosmoniks]] 
some cosmoniks had metamorphosed into little more than free-flying maintenance craft with a brain at the centre (Reality Dysfunction 266)

sleek-skinned two-metre-tall gargoyle (Reality Dysfunction 266)

blurring the line between machine and human (Reality Dysfunction 980)

Ariadne was the only female on the team, although her gender was oscured like all the others (Reality Dysfunction 985)

My shipmates don't know this, but all that's left of my real body is the brain and a few nerve cords. The rest of me perished long ago. (Reality Dysfunction 1183)

Descriptions of cosmoniks in pages 980, 981, 982, 984
##### About the [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Combat Boosted People\|Combat Boosted People]]
several of them resembled cosmoniks, with a tough silicon outer skin, and dual - even triple - lower arms, sockets customised for weapons (Reality Dysfunction 785)

assembled grotesqueries (Reality Dysfunction 785) 

Chas Paske was bigger than any cosmonik, his synthetic skin the colour of weather-worn stone. He didn't bother with clothes other than weapon belts and equipment straps. (Reality Dysfunction 969)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Edenists\|Edenists]]:
The original hundred families (Reality Dysfunction 30)

Edenism was supposed to be a completely egalitarian society (Reality Dysfunction 45)

We have continuity, us Edenists. I'll be a part of the habitat personality. I'll see what you're all up to, and we can talk whenever you want. Do don't be sad, and don't be frightened. Death isn't something to be afraid of, not for us. (Reality Dysfunction 47)

Floating balance was geneered into all Edenists (Reality Dysfunction 51)

Edenists didn't need to worry about disease, not with their immunology systems (Reality Dysfunction 52)

well into middle age (Reality Dysfunction 117) about a character who is 125 years old

minds transferring into Oenone's neural shells. But broken, incomplete. Flawed. (Reality Dysfunction 126) about Edenists dying too fast. More information on page 129 and then in page 132 and 135

we're human, more so than Adamists can ever be (Reality Dysfunction 131) more info there

with eighteen children, and, so far, forty-two grandchildren, eleven great-grandchildren, and the two newest fourth-generation additions, Athene headed a family that never gave her a moment's rest (Reality Dysfunction 131)

Our afterlife, however, is tangible, real. For us it is not a question of faith, we have fact (Reality Dysfunction 135)

not everybody born an Edenist dies an Edenist. Some of us rebel, we shut off that cacophony of nobility and unity that vomits into our minds every living second (Reality Dysfunction 322) about serpents and laton

Syrinx had never seen anyone with a limb missing before (Reality Dysfunction 532). More on that page about disability. 

he wanted to get into your genes, your mind, and alter you, mould you to his own deviant construct (Reality Dysfunction 793) about Laton

Pages 27, 30, for quotes on Edenist/Voidhawk link and birthing children. Page 48, on Edenist death and continuation. Laton's form of immortality is in pages 325, 325 and 326. Rubra's serpent behaviour is on pages 750 and 751. Laton hints that Edenists may not be in the nothingness in pages 891 and 892.
#### About Adamist/Edenist relations:
A unique neuron symbiont meshed with his medulla, providing him with a secure link to its clone-analogue in the Udat, nothing like the hereditary Edenist communal affinity (Reality Dysfunction 40)

the difference between Edenists and Adamists, those humans who had the affinity gene and those who didn't (45)
The affinity gene was declared to be a violation of divine heritage (Reality Dysfunction 50)
#### About the role of women:
I have several granddaughters I wouldn't mind getting rid of (Reality Dysfunction 41) about marriage, edenist

There's no blood, no pain, almost as we weren't meant to have them ourselves (Reality Dysfunction 43) birth, edenism

large age gaps were common among Edenist partners, but a hundred years was pushing the limits of propriety (Reality Dysfunction 117)

she turns males to jelly. shows us fems what we can all do if we want (Reality Dysfunction 173) about a singer

bluesense directors remodelled their female meat to look and feel like her (Reality Dysfunction 290) about porn, hey i'm scared

They shunned technology. 'Except for nanonic medical packages,' she said wryly. 'Amazing how many women become technocrats around childbirth time.' (Reality Dysfunction 762)

Why should I have to be preened and groomed like I'm a pedigree show horse? It's a wicked, filthy tradition treating women like that (Reality Dysfunction 912)

Laton's evil sexism is in page 321, very important. General sexism in Norfolk in page 617 and 618, about enforced gender roles.
#### About religion
Didn't they have Light Brother sects amongst the stars? Reality Dysfunction 85

Father Varhoos had warned the congregation about them and their soulless technology of perverted life (Reality Dysfunction 140) about edenists

a single chromosome which makes people a blasphemy (Reality Dysfunction 164)
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Posessed\|Posessed]]:
He turned slowly, uncertainly, as though he was unacquainted with his own body (Reality Dysfunction 401)

we don't require your services, padre. but we do need your body (Reality Dysfunction 402)

there will never be death again (Reality Dysfunction 407)

something which acted like sequestration nanonics, usurping a human's original personality and replacing it with mechanoid warrior traits (Reality Dysfunction 464)

the electrical machinery upon which he was now dependent recoiled from his estranged body (Reality Dysfunction 528)

the punished, mutilated body just refused to give up (Reality Dysfunction 588)

turn colonists into a slave army (Reality Dysfunction 671)

I died four hundred years ago. Four hundred years of nothing Reality Dysfunction (837)

they hunt fresh bodies for other souls trapped in the beyond, it has become their quest (Reality Dysfunction 839)

together we are strong. together we can change what is. we can destroy death, Father. (Reality Dysfunction 840)

And Lewis Sinclair made the same discovery as every human eventually made. Death was not the end of being. In the centuries that followed, spent as a virtually powerless astral entity suspended in dimensional emptiness, perceiving and envying mortals in their rich physical existence, he simply wished it were so. (Reality Dysfunction 856)

Often he felt as though the body he had possessed was simply a biological sensor mechanism, a mole's head peeking out from the earth, feeding sensations back to his feeling-starved soul via an incorporeal umbilical cord (Reality Dysfunction 857)

All of the possessors had a similar prisoner, visualised as a tiny homunculus contained within a sphere of cephalic glass (Reality Dysfunction 861)

They can change people, their minds, their bodies; mould whole planets into something new, something that we have no part in (Reality Dysfunction 1011)

I have my life back. I have my baby back. That's what I am (Reality Dysfunction 1036) 

There was a vennal inside the wrap. The little xenoc creature had been distorted, its vulpine skull swollen and moulded (Reality Dysfunction 1039)

we can pull open the portal that leads away from mortality (Reality Dysfunction 1109)

worlds snatched out of their orbit by armies of the dead (Reality Dysfunction 1111)

Pages 852 and 853 contain information about the exorcism. 
#### About dehumanisation:
Passengers never received that feeling. Passengers were meat. (Reality Dysfunction 29)

the cortical-suppressor collar pinching his neck made any thoughts of escape a pitiful fantasy (Reality Dysfunction 84)

persona-sequestrator nanonics (Reality Dysfunction 86)

Page 90 about the use of prisoners as slaves for the colonists
Colonists were human cattle (Reality Dysfunction 143)

I'll have him broken up for transplant meat (Reality Dysfunction 290)

people travelling in stasis (Reality Dysfunction 297)

they were bulk carriers whose cargo happened to be people, and the line companies didn't waste money on cosmetic finishes (Reality Dysfunction 783)
#### About warfare:
They have it because we have it; we have it because they have it. One of the oldest, and feeblest, arguments history has produced (Reality Dysfunction 2)

the Confederation imposed a thirty-year sanction against Omuta for its part in the Garissan holocaust of 2581, prohibiting both trade and travel to the star system (Reality Dysfunction 436)

a handshake and an exchange of symbolic letters, and all was forgiven (Reality Dysfunction 438)

he had no eyes nor nose left, only the armour suit sensors enabled him to see where he was going now, datavising their images directly into his neural nanonics (Reality Dysfunction 705)

For Jesus's sake, take my son, if you have a gram of pity in you. I'm begging you! ... Take him, or shoot him. (Reality Dysfunction 746) about the horrors of leaving so many behind

Show of the horrors of war/necroeconomics: on page 12, and 272 regarding Garissa and Alkad Mzu. Show of effortless killing in page 614, regarding a dart. Page 792 for the massacre created by Laton, killing a habitat.
#### About Earth:
On Earth, the shielded arcologies had sheltered people from their heat-wrecked climate for five and a half centuries (Reality Dysfunction 16)

Trees, real bloody trees. Millions of them. Trillions of them! (Reality Dysfunction 92) an earth colonist seeing lalonde

How strange that the first time he should meet them was on a planet three hundred light-years from their homeworld (Reality Dysfunction 100) Horst sees horses

that planet is one giant hive queen for misbegottens (Reality Dysfunction 111)

Earth's population is creeping up again, the number of illegal births rose three per cent last year. And that's just the official illegals. (Reality Dysfunction 221)

Page 855 contains more information about Earth and the arcologies. 
#### About Terraforming
a world which barely qualified as terracompatible (Reality Dysfunction 90)

opened for settlement by the development company (Reality Dysfunction 91)

basically a jungle populated by psychological Neanderthals (Reality Dysfunction 109)

its cloning will be such a simple matter, and the genome patent will remain exclusively in your hands, an incalculable font of wealth (Reality Dysfunction 185) about a xenoc plant

the Edenists were confined to colonizing the Confederation's gas giants Reality Dysfunction (415) More on that same page for Atlantis, the exception.

Wu use dolphins to help with the fishing ... they're just plain ordinary dolphins with the affinity gene spliced in (Reality Dysfunction 431) on atlantis

and they're not even xenocs. They're ours. Earth's. ... Thank Providence we had the sense to preserve the genes. (Reality Dysfunction 446) about whales

It made plants unique. And uniqueness was always valuable (Reality Dysfunction 512)

eight hundred and sixty-two inhabited star systems which made up the Confederation in 2611 (Reality Dysfunction 806)
Not even Kulu tries to manipulate its climate (Reality Dysfunction 962)

Page 105 about how planets come to be owned, page 107 for terraforming process, page 170 for a bunch of idyll of colonial life, page 177 for the loss of that idyll. Page 229 for how animals are brought to planets via artificial uteri. Page 333 for exploitation of resources. Page 805 for the terraforming of Avon.
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Affinity Bonded Animals\|Affinity Bonded Animals]]
This is my friend, Vorix. He and I are affinity bonded (Reality Dysfunction 162)

neural symbionts give me control over him. I use them because they're cheap and they work (Reality Dysfunction 163)

flying the predator via affinity was always an experience he enjoyed (Reality Dysfunction 253)

The masterlove thoughts (Reality Dysfunction 1208)

Ryall felt a curious mix of excitement and sorrow. But the masterlove thoughts were full of gentle praise (Reality Dysfunction 1208)

Shared pain between Vorix and Powel in pages 370 and 371. More affinity bonded dogs in page 986
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Bitek Ships and Habitats\|Bitek Ships and Habitats]]:
I would spend one day as a human (Reality Dysfunction 28)

I will love you always (Reality Dysfunction 33)

silent hymn of mourning (Reality Dysfunction 38) sung by voidhawks

housechimps, monkey-derived bitek servitors (Reality Dysfunction 44)

My mentality is, after all, the summation of individual Edenists. Nor was I ever one of god's creatures. I am entirely artificial. (Reality Dysfunction 49)

an insistence of identity (Reality Dysfunction 124)

without its captain, the blackhawk would have to obey an Edenist (Reality Dysfunction 125)

Graeae's eggs have been lost as well. What a terrible, filthy thing to do (Reality Dysfunction 128)

Mirchusko was where the blackhawks mated and died and gestated. ... Their eggs could be bought here, changing hands for upwards of twenty million fuseodollars and absolutely no questions (Reality Dysfunction 182)

impartial habitat-personality which policed the interior to ensure a crime-free environment (Reality Dysfunction 183)

Tranquillity's serjeants were an addition to the usual habitat servitor genealogy, hulking exoskeleton-clad humanoids that served as a police force (Reality Dysfunction 202)

the house's sub-sentient bitek processor network (Reality Dysfunction 253) about Laton's place in Lalonde

we're good friends (Reality Dysfunction 260) udat about tranquillity

no such thing as starvation in bitek habitats (Reality Dysfunction 277) more info there about generated food sludge

Housechimps scampered about ... long-suppressed simian tribal traits were surfacing (Reality Dysfunction 870) Other servitors just stop, but simians have an underlying existence. Whoops!

They're going to kill the habitat, aren't they? ... It can't hurt them, it can't hurt anybody. (Reality Dysfunction 1068)

People injure. Animals injure. Not habitats. You can't hurt them like you can a mammal (Reality Dysfunction 1070)

I was angry, frightened. Now I feel sorrow. (Reality Dysfunction 1072) a habitat says these words. 

Some habitat definitions on 44, 45.
### About Xenocs
they were expecting him to live under open skies with talking animals (Reality Dysfunction 88)

xenoc specialists (Reality Dysfunction 183)

xenoc-buggering bastard (Reality Dysfunction 292)

cloning and breeding programmes were an anathema to the imperial court, they lived by natural selection alone (Reality Dysfunction 421) about the Sailu pet and its exoticness

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Ly-cilph\|Ly-cilph]]
Info and quotes on pages 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the novel. More info on page 257, regarding information-power.

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Laymil\|Laymil]]
there was a limited and diminishing source of unique alien *objets* (Reality Dysfunction 58)

a perfectly ordinary spacefaring race (Reality Dysfunction 60)

they have a substantially different body chemistry, and three sexes, and monster bodies, but their minds worked along reasonably similar lines to ours. (Reality Dysfunction 209)

technical templates and DNA were exchanged between clan units, but no physical or biotechnology artefacts were traded for financial reward (Reality Dysfunction 945)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Tyrathca\|Tyrathca]]
explanation about them in pages 1120, 1121

they're just sitting there ... they must have been waiting to die ... without the breeders, they are nothing (Reality Dysfunction 1133)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Kiint\|Kiint]] 
Most information on page 287. Page 412 for the Kiint baby appearance

Venture as you please. Fly to stars so distant. Welcome sights so strange. I want this, muchness! (Reality Dysfunction 735) baby Kiint
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Sayce\|Sayce]] 
there were words in the cry, strangely twisted by the xenoc gullet, human words ... the *thing* hated them, echoing its master (Reality Dysfunction 144)

the local dog-analogue, with a degree more intelligence than Earth's canines (Reality Dysfunction 150)

big cages were lined up along the back wall, sayce prowling about inside, highly agitated (150) they make them fight

one of the sayce was screeching. Quinn thought it was calling 'Help.' (Reality Dysfunction 152)

binding up carcasses of sayce ... to be spit-roasted (Reality Dysfunction 228)

'Waaterrr baddd,' he growled (Reality Dysfunction 568)

'Nooo,' Randolf bayed urgently. 'Baddd. Peeeople baddd.' (Reality Dysfunction 571)

Randolf howled in rage as his master fell into the water (Reality Dysfunction 572)
