---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/5-hamilton/2-the-neutronium-alchemist/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

## Quotes
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Adamists\|Adamists]]: 
The boosted musculature ... had to be completely replaced with fresh artificial tissue, along with various blood vessels, skin, and nerves.  (Neutronium Alchemist 40)

Ralph assigned his neural nanonics full control of his musculature, ... with detached interest he observed his body swivelling (Neutronium Alchemist 76)

Neatly tabulated icons retreated from his mind's eye like cowardly ghosts (Neutronium Alchemist 136)

His head was ringing with a mental version of tinnitus, which he suspected was due to the stimulants ... both chemical and software excitants to keep his edge (Neutronium Alchemist 182)

his Kulu Corporation neural nanonics are top of the range, very high capacity (Neutronium Alchemist 292)

thirty per cent of his body was accounted for by artificial tissue (Neutronium Alchemist 416)

His sister had something in her genes which made it difficult for laser imprinters to work on her brain, she had to work hard at revising everything to make it stick (Neutronium Alchemist 454)

The cosmetic adaptation packages were ... with warty bubbles on the outside, holding reserves of collagen ready to be implanted, firming up new contours (Neutronium Alchemist 628)

He hated the artificial calm the software brought (Neutronium Alchemist 631)

Metal and composite body parts were worn like medals, showing how much damage you'd taken for the gang. (Neutronium Alchemist 755)

He wasn't used to so much pain, none of them were. Neural nanonics always protected them. (Neutronium Alchemist 758)

Being unaware of his exact location was an alien experience. Human doubt was superseding technological prowess. (Neutronium Alchemist 800)

i'm going to need some clone-vat tissue to build the fingers up (Neutronium Alchemist 811)

She'd never bothered indexing a memory of winter in her neural nanonics (Neutronium Alchemist 939)

loaded a program for a crestfallen expression into their neural nanonics (Neutronium Alchemist 982)

In page 41 they talk about the social structure under the Saldanas. Mention of AI in page 62 and 271. Dramatic Jezzibella lack of emotions in 90, there's also some stuff about Bitek dermal scales there. Pages 293 and 294 have a lot of text about body replacement and the price of a body. Page 532, comment about cosmetic tailoring. Kelly on drugs and angst on page 1199.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Martians\|Martians]]
there was very little difference between genders; Louise wasn't entirely sure the two women even had breasts (Neutronium Alchemist 366)

Mars was the most expensive single project ever undertaken by the human race, yet its intrinsic value was effectively zero (Neutronium Alchemist 592)

Our ancestors modified their bodies to live in a Lunar gravity field before the ZTT drive was built. They could have sent their children to settle countless terracompatible worlds, but then those children would have needed geneering to adapt them back to the human 'norm'. Parent and child would have been parted at birth; they wouldn't have been descendants, just fosterlings in an alien environment. So we decided to make ourselves a world of our own (Neutronium Alchemist 907)

Faurax found himself wishing she was a Martian girl. She had a beautiful face, it was just her body which was so alien (Neutronium Alchemist 912)

Page 362 has detailed descriptions of Martians.
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Cosmoniks\|Cosmoniks]] 
A cosmonik with a body resembling a mannequin: jet black with no features at all, not even on the head (Neutronium Alchemist 628)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Edenists\|Edenists]]:
Jupiter's citizens had no underclass, no ignorance, no poverty, and no misfits, barring the one-in-a-million Serpent who rejected Edenism in its entirety (Neutronium Alchemist 213)

Valisk was littered with the neurotic detritus of Rubra's earlier attempts to create a dynamic ruthless personality in what he considered his own image (Neutronium Alchemist 245)

Commie Edenists (Neutronium Alchemist 273)

Once,the knowledge that his memories would be held safely in the Hoya would have been enough for him. Now he wasn't so sure that was allthat mattered. (Neutronium Alchemist 1092)

An explanation of society in Edenism in page 211. Edenist memories being put into Serjeants on pages 1166 to 1168, also related to dehumanisation.
#### About the role of women:
The elder one would make a good reward for disciples who demonstrated loyalty (Neutronium Alchemist 9)
#### About religion
Because everything now is temporary. Everything. When you're damned to exist for eternity, nothing you experience lasts for long (Neutronium Alchemist 470)
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Posessed\|Posessed]]:
I may be damned, but I am not devoid of honour (Neutronium Alchemist 36)

To take the planet away (Neutronium Alchemist 116)

He let his mind slip into that peculiar state of otherness, and felt round for the rest of the possessed under his command (Neutronium Alchemist 135)

They can be beaten, squeezed out without killing the body they're possessing (Neutronium Alchemist 164)

Rocío pushed and wriggled himself deeper into the brain's neural pathways (Neutronium Alchemist 254)

Tatars and cyberpunks mixed happily with Roman legionaires and heavy-leather bikers, along with several rejects from the good Dr Frankenstein's assembly lab (Neutronium Alchemist 281)

You're what they squeezed me into. You ain't nothing but a sick disease the record companies cooked up to make money. I would never come back as you (Neutronium Alchemist 375) about Elvis

Louise likened it to watching the outbreak of some terrible disease, a swelling cancer gnawing away at the flesh of her world (Neutronium Alchemist 380)

Everyone was party to the same guilty secret: what we did, what was done for us to return our souls into these bodies (Neutronium Alchemist 484-485)

We're ghosts (Neutronium Alchemist 902)

The perception of common morality is enforced entirely by the circumstances of male-dominated society. Our new and unique circumstances require us to re-evaluate that original morality. As there are clearly not enough living bodies to go around the human race, sensory ownership should be distributed on an equitable basis. It's no good the living protesting about us. We have as much right to sensory input as they do (Neutronium Alchemist 929)

That isn't your body, and it certainly isn't your DNA. You will never have a child again, not one of your own (Neutronium Alchemist 930)

Quinn could sense several ghosts standing amongst them. Frightened and demoralised as always; and as he had discovered, utterly harmless (Neutronium Alchemist 954)

Screw fate and destiny, just spend the rest of time in zero-tau (Neutronium Alchemist 1091)

Weird ideas about more options in page 624. The possessed may b e very sick according to Rubra in pages 852-853, keep an eye in case this subplot comes back. Narrative drama about the gosts on pages 901 and 1068 (Dariat).
#### About dehumanisation:
In this situation we have to mantain a policy of guilty until proven innocent (Neutronium Alchemist 43)

I need people who can run the factory machines. I need people who can kerp the lights on and the water flowing, who're gonna take the garbage away. (Neutronium Alchemist 139)

Terminal drunks and stim victims slummed the bars (Neutronium Alchemist 158)

Dehumanising description of a corpse in page 57. A group of Posessed are killed in page 101 although they could potentially be cured, thanatoeconomics. 
#### About warfare:
A doomsday device that's supposed to be able to kill stars (Neutronium Alchemist 231)

They slaughtered ninety-five million of us, Ikela, they wrecked our planet, they made us breathe radioactive soot until our lungs bled. Genocide doesn't even begin to describe what was done to us (Neutronium Alchemist 611-612)

Description of an assault mechanoid in page 68. 
#### About Earth:
A clear dawn, the kind which Earth hadn't seen for centuries; the sun huge and red-gold (Neutronium Alchemist 122)

Only Earth with its guesstimated population of thirty-five billion (Neutronium Alchemist 213)

As Earth had painfully discovered centuries ago during the Great Dispersal ... foreign cultures can live harmoniously with each other providing they don't have to live jammed together on the same planet (Neutronium Alchemist 239)

Earth's dying; the arcologies are old, worn out. (Neutronium Alchemist 625)

By then, people had finally realized the arcologies weren't going to be a temporary shelter from the ruined climate, somewhere to stay while Govcentral cooled the atmosphere, cleaned up the pollution, and put the weather patterns back to rights. The tainted clouds and armada storms were here to stay. Anyone who wanted to live under an open sky would have to leave and find a new one (Neutronium Alchemist 653) 

Back on Earth we learned everything there was to know about climate, all those doomsdays waiting to bite our arses if we aren't good obedient little Govcentral mechanoids. (Neutronium Alchemist 1136)

A planet whose ecology was ruined beyond repair ... Overpopulated, ancient, decadent, and utterly formidable (Neutronium Alchemist 1174)

Information about conflict and the Great Dispersal in page 654.
#### About Terraforming
They were a geneered variety, plump, with rusty yellow feathers (Neutronium Alchemist 601) about chickens

Even if you assume only ten dead people for everyone living, there must be approximately ten trillion souls in the beyond. If they were each given a construct body, where would they live? (Neutronium Alchemist 882)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Affinity Bonded Animals\|Affinity Bonded Animals]]
Ayacucho had been the centre of a remarkable breeding programme. When the agents from the 'defence delegation' team arrived they brought with them seventy thousand geneered spider eggs. Every arachnid was affinity capable (Neutronium Alchemist 681)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Bitek Ships and Habitats\|Bitek Ships and Habitats]]:
The yearning to go home after such a tremendous shock was as much a voidhawk trait as a human one (Neutronium Alchemist 210)

Frantic, frightened voidhawk (Neutronium Alchemist 210)

The blackhawk was there waiting for its captain, its mind full of love and sympathy; a gentle and trusting creature for all its size and indomitable power (Neutronium Alchemist 256)

But he couldn't assume control of a blackhawk's enormously complex functions as easily as he could a human body (Neutronium Alchemist 257)

"So a habitat would have its own soul?" "Of course." (Neutronium Alchemist 750)
### About Xenocs
There were those in the Assembly who said that the xenocs should join the rota for the Polity Council seats like every human government had to (Neutronium Alchemist 238)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Tyrathca\|Tyrathca]]
The Tyrathca this day end our contact with all humans. We will leave your worlds. Do not come to ours. (Neutronium Alchemist 243)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Kiint\|Kiint]] 
All sentient races eventually discover the truth of death (Neutronium Alchemist 244)

Tous a memory construct is not the entity, no matter how sophisticated the simulacrum (Neutronium Alchemist 750)

##### Other
Page 1005 for time-travel bullshit, in case it becomes relevant. 