---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/5-hamilton/3-2-a-second-chance-at-eden/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

## Quotes

#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Edenists\|Edenists]]:
boosting their immunology system, improving organ efficiency, dozens of subtle metabolic enhancements (55)
Sickly grey fungal spores grubbing round my cells, sending out slender yellow roots to penetrate the delicate membrane walls (Second Chance at Eden 72)

There's none of the kind of casual cruelty you normally get in kindergartens back on Earth (Second Chance at Eden 74)

Our children are already showing us how innately kind and decent people can be when they grow up sharing their thoughts (Second Chance at Eden 112)

I told you once that thoughts are sacred, the essence of man; it is our tragedy that their vessel should be flesh, for flesh is so weak ... It shackles the soul. It is this curse of ephemerality which I have sought to liberate us from (Second Chance at Eden 215)

We are the immortals now. We do not need the crutch of faith in deities ... our lives are our own, for the very first time (Second Chance at Eden 215)

I don't want to be a ghost in a living machine. That isn't immortality, Harvey. It's just a recording, like a song that's played over and over long after the singer has died. A memory. A mockery. (Second Chance at Eden 222)

More Wing-Tsit Chong nonsense in page 215. 
#### About the role of women:
She altered her DNA to give you your looks, and improve your metabolism, and increase your intelligence. It was almost a case of parthenogenesis; genetically speaking, she's somewhere between your mother and your twin (Second Chance at Eden 177)

Your mother, your creator, the woman who breathed life into you so that you could be condemned to an existence of sexual slavery (Second Chance at Eden 178)

Hoi Yin's childhood in page 179.
#### About dehumanisation:
Those crews take a terrible risk going outside. They all have their sperm and ova frozen before they come here so they don't jeopardize their children (Second Chance at Eden 69)

Consequences of ratiation in page 69. 
#### About Earth:
The planet's climate is in a state of what they call Perpetual Chaos Transition (Second Chance at Eden 75)

It was the heat which did it. The heat from bringing the benefits of an industrial economy to eighteen billion people (Second Chance at Eden 76)

That ball of disease you call a world (Second Chance at Eden 80)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Affinity Bonded Animals\|Affinity Bonded Animals]]
The servitor chimps were obviously genetically adapted; they stood nearly one metre fifty, without any of the rubber sack paunchiness of the pure genotype primates cowering in what was left of Earth's rain forests (Second Chance at Eden 43)

an expert on servitor neurology and psychology (Second Chance at Eden 51)

The servitor chimps are given full physiological checks every six months in the veterinary centre. The ones allowed to domestic duties have a communal wash-house (Second Chance at Eden 61)

Even the habitat couldn't stop its teeth from chattering in fright. Primitive emotions whirled through its simple brain: terror, regret, panic, the last remnants of its animal origin fighting for recognition (Second Chance at Eden 140)

A race born into slavery (Second Chance at Eden 171)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Bitek Ships and Habitats\|Bitek Ships and Habitats]]:
'The personality is upset?' I enquired sceptically. She shot me a glance. 'Of course it is. It's sentient ... The habitat isn't AI. It's alive, it's conscious. A living entity. (Second Chance at Eden 50)

A strata of neural cells, a brain, measuring one metre thick, and covering almost sixty-four square kilometres (Second Chance at Eden 96)

Any entity with a soul can love (Second Chance at Eden 135) about Eden

Creation of Eden habitat in page 38