---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/primary-bibliography/5-hamilton/4-the-naked-god/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

Full Citation: Hamilton, Peter F.. The Naked God. Pan MacMillan, 1999

## Quotes
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Adamists\|Adamists]]: 
Humans have never practiced eugenics, we regard it as an abomination, and rightly so. If that's the price for racial improvement, we're not willing to pay it (Naked God 23)

pumped bodies, their muscle shape defined by some exercise but mostly tailored hormones (Naked God 31)

synthesizing an impressive pharmacopoeia of drugs, hormones, and proscribed viral vectors (Naked God 33)

sequestration nanonics; that would be the fate of the gang's leadership, turned into biological mechanoids (Naked God 37)

there were the usual weapons implants ... hard splinters among the softer grain of organic matter (Naked God 161)

Eight hours of neural nanonics enforced sleep had left him feeling fresh, but emotionally dead (Naked God 241)

Everything you need to survive daily arcology life: datavises, mid-res neuroiconic display, enhanced memory retrieval, axon block (Naked God 310)

Encyclopaedia Galactica, employment waldoing, SII suit control, weapons integration,linguistic translation, news informant, starship astrogatgion, net search ... nerve overrides to control your body, sense amplification, sight-equivalent neuroiconic generation, complete reality senseviron, implant command, totally indexed memory recall (Naked God 311)

If someone changes the filaments or subverts the NAS codes they could get into your memories or manipulate your body like a puppet (Naked God 314)

His heart rate now had to be regulated by his neural nanonics; he was wired so tight, even the regenerated flesh on the fingers of his left hand was tingling with phantom sensation (Naked God 716)

I've got plenty of brain, too, the best neurons money can sequence (Naked God 870)

She wondered if true aristocracy meant having the gene for guilt removed (Naked God 871)

Description of war-boosted mercenary on page 78. On page 316, installation of a nanonic package and description of education.

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Banneth and their victims\|Banneth and their victims]]
Life-support canisters were arranged around the walls ... People, in a few of them. Suspended by a white silk web in some thick clear fluid, tubes going into their mouths and noses (those that still have mouth and noses). Always with their eyes open, looking about. Acolytes he remembered from not so long back, with new appendages grafted on, or with parts removed, their incisions raw and open to reveal the missing organs. Then there were the less than human creatures, made worse by having very pieces of human attached. Clusters of organs bound together by a plexus of naked pumping veins. Animals, game cats an d gorillas with the tops of their skull removed, and no brain left inside. (Naked God 479)

Banneth was a hermaphrodite (by design, so rumour said). She looked as if she was about twenty, either as a male or a female; though age was an easy enough cosmetic adaptation. (Naked God 480)

Ever felt flesh that's started to decay, Kilian? Necromorphology is a somewhat acquired taste. (Naked God 481)

Perhaps you ought to trigger your gender cycle early, Western Europe suggested. Shift into a man (Naked God 498)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Edenists\|Edenists]]:
There are many ways of being human (Naked God 149)

Edenist habitats gossiped among themselves ... their multiplicity personalities were made up from millions of people, who like all the elderly were keen to see how their young relatives were doing and spread the word (Naked God 226)

There's no such thing as an orphan among us (Naked God 341)

The copied brain for memory experiments in page 350.

I'm given to understand that a soul is formed by impressing coherent sentient thought on the beyond-type energy which is present in this universe. Therefore, as you are a sentient entity, you will now have your own soul (Naked God 351)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Serjeant bodies\|Serjeant bodies]] 
It doesn't bother me because I'm not human, just a very sophisticated bitek automaton. I don't have a brain, just a collection of processors (Naked God 79)

he was worried his newly assembled body would split along surgical lines as he strained muscles and tendons to hold on (Naked God 258)

It's not something we were expecting, the animating personalities were supposed to be fairly simple thought routines (Naked God 379)

The serjeants developing advanced personalities? ... I wonder if they'll refuse to go back into their habitat multiplicities when the campaign is over (Naked God 383)

The personalities in the sergeants are all volunteers. They came here knowing what their probable fate would be. That purpose remains at their core ... use them for the purpose for which they were created: saving genuine human lives. If they are truly capable of emotion, then their only hope of gaining satisfaction will come from achieving that (Naked God 385)

'Death machine, if you believe what you say, then you should switch yourself off and allow real humans to live longer. You're wasting our air.' 'I am human. More so than you, I suspect.' (662)
We carry the seeds of humanity no matter what vessel our minds travel in (Naked God 1126)

They will make a strange group, these sould who are going to occupy serjeant bodies. Their complete humanity will always be beyond their grasp (Naked God 1126)

A bitek abomination with a soul that's escaped from purgatory (Naked God 1150)

Decisions regarding Tinkerbell's offer in page 1125, some more in 1126
#### About the [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Posessed\|Posessed]]:
if you have imaginary muscles, they are put under quite a strain carrying your imaginary body across long distances (Naked God 118)

delighted by the knowledge they could inflict injury, pain (Naked God 123)

experiment with the novel methods of brutality available to ghosts (Naked God 124)

once they'd been expelled from their host bodies, they wouldn't leave. ... they had clung longingly to their victims, following them with perverted devotion (Naked God 125)

This is my body. Mine! My flesh and blood. She took that from me. She solied me, ruined me. I'm so corrupt I'm not even human any more (Naked God 127)

It became real. I'm not me, not now. She even took my identity away from me. ... She stole my body, and still that wasn't enough. Look, look what she's done to me. (Naked God 128) That page reveals the cancer tumours that result from possessed changing the bodies. 

a creature now purely of thought (Naked God 142)

I believe I know the glue which holds souls together. It has to be sentience. Consider, an animal like a cat or a dog has its individuality as a biological entity, but no soul. Why not? It has a neural structure, it has memories, it has thought processes operating inside that neural structure. Yet when it dies, all that loses coherence. Without a focus, a strong sense of identity, the pattern dissolves. (Naked God 225)

A universal anti-memory that would spread through thought processes, fracturing them as it went (Naked God 225)

It's his body, not mine. Look what I've done to it. (Naked God 265)

I don't know what that energistic power is, but it screws up their flesh real bad under the illusion. Sometimes you get fat deposits building up, that's pretty harmless; but nine out of ten, it's tumours. (Naked God 286)

I will never permit such a thing to be used. For all they are different, the souls are human. I am sworn to protect life throughout the Confederation (Naked God 356)

We know what we need, and we make it happen. That's one of the joys of this new life. There's no fate any more. We control destiny now (Naked God 371)

Given the development level of cancers we've seen on the de-posessed so far, there will be a rapid and extremely high mortality rate (Naked God 472)

'We are not problems. ... We are people. If that simple fact could ever register in that fascist bitek brain of yours then you might be able to look in a different direction, one that would help bring an end to our suffering. But that is beyond you. To think along those lines you have to be human. And after all these weeks of study, the one definite conclusion I have come to is that you are not human. Nor can you ever become human. You have nothing, no moral foundation from which to grow out of' (Naked God 722)

Identity was a taboo topic on Norfolk these days (Naked God 802)

They're the daughters of this body, Luca. And the more I settle into this body, the more it belongs to me, then the more I have to accept what comes with it (Naked God 803)

You haven't been granted the power to work miracles, all you can do is corrupt nature (Naked God 809)

You must accept what you are, and rejoice in it. You were a soul tormented by emptiness, now you have a body again. One that can provide you with every sensation that was taken from you in the beyond. What it looks like is a supreme irrelevance (Naked God 810)

That's not his original body, and the instinct to shape it into what he remembers as his own form must be broken (Naked God 813)
#### About dehumanisation:
Surrendering to the company and signing on as another of its cheaply produced multi-function biological tools. She knew several girls on her corridor level who were grandmothers at twenty-eight (Naked God 106)

Human bodies caught within the flexing three-dimsensional mesh of beams burst apart from the terrible energy input (Naked God 447)

Ex-posessed being carried away to safety. 'Gimmies' was the term which the rovers had privately evolved for them. Every interview when they came staggering out of the zero-tau pods was the same litany of demands: give me medical treatment, give me clothes, give me food, give me the rest of my family, give me somewhere safe to live, give me my life back (Naked God 940)
#### About warfare:
We just tell the AI what we want, and it designates for us. This is the first time in history a land army commander doesn't have to worry unduly about logistics (Naked God 89)

This was an ecological blight unmatched since the worst of Earth's dystopian twenty-first century. Marine creatures were dying in the plague of unnatural dark waters, choking beneath the uncountable corpses of their mammalian cousins (Naked God 376)

Mortonbridge would never recover, would never grow back to what it was. Maybe that was the best memorial, a decimated land was something that could never be overlooked and ignored by future generations (Naked God 376)

Hundreds of distressed and emaciated aboriginal animals scurried about ... Birds scuttled among them, their feathers too slick with mud for them to fly (Naked God 389)
#### About Earth:
All the passengers saw was an unbroken murky-grey cloud layer which covered most of the continent and a third of the South Atlantic. (Naked God 13)

the planet's rabid weather (Naked God 13)

its vast population centres kept separate by an amok nature almost as lethal as the interstellar void (Naked God 14)

rents were cheap near the ground, where there was little light but plenty of noise, and the heavy air gusting between dirty vertical walls had been breathed a hundred times before (Naked God 30)

I thought Earth was all rotten (Naked God 179)

The surface vegetation is not what it used to be, so Govcentral introduced the algae to prevent us from suffocating ourselves (Naked God 181)

everyone who grew up on Earth and lived in the arcologies had an instinctive awareness of crowds (Naked God 249)

Arcologies were the social equivalent of nukes. Half a billion  people crammed into a couple of hundred square kilometres; an impossibility of human nature. The only society which could conceivably hang together in those circumstances eas a total-control dictatorship. (Naked God 573)

Hundreds of square kilometres were given over to the synthesis machinery capable of producing proteins and carbohydrates and vitamins, blending them together in a million different textural combinations that somehow never quite managed to taste the same as natural crops. They supplied food for the entire arcology, siphoning in the raw chemicals from the sea and the sewage and the air (Naked God 856)

organic synthesizers and meat clone vats (Naked God 856)

This is just about the only vegetation left on the planet, the old green , green grass of home. It's tapegrass, kind of a cross between grass and moss, geneered with a root network that's the toughest, thickest tangle of fronds you'll ever see (Naked God 857) More in page 858

There's supposed to be families of rabbits living in big warrens along some of the flood-free valleys. Friends of mine say they've seen them, other drivers. I don't know how, the ultraviolet ought to burn their eyes and give them cancer. (Naked God 857)

Earth's population was almost schizophrenic over the new stage one planets available. On the one hand, their own climate had been reset to normal, making the arcology domes redundant. But Earth's surface would take a generation to restore. And if it was restored with forests, meadows, jungles, and prairies, there would be a Diaspora from the arcologies, which would ruin everything. However, if the population was spread around the new planets (less than a billion each), all of them would have a natural environment, allowing them to keep their present level of consumerist industrialisation, and not totally screw up the atmospheres with waste heat (Naked God 1234)

Armada storms explained in page 156. 
#### About the Environment
The slandau flowers grew there. They had chroma-tactile petals; if you touched one, it would change colour. When the breeze blew through the trees it was like standing inside a kaleidoscope. I used to spend hours walking along the paths. Then the developers came, and cleared the site to make room for a factory park. ... Money and industry won every time (Naked God 413)

The small solaris tube running above his orchids was also off. Several of the rare pure genotype plants were due to flower, their fleshy buds had almost burst. They never would now (Naked God 720)
##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/B7 operatives\|B7 operatives]]
Your memory transfer must have glitched. We protect ourselves. Earth is merely our citadel. (Naked God 191)

To be perfectly honest, starting afresh on some new world holds little appeal (Naked God 588)

Six-hundred and fifty-two, actually (Naked God 798)

I suppose you could say I rule the world. Pity I'm not making a better job of it right now (Naked God 861)

This is the thirty-first body I've lived in. They're all clones, you see; parthenogenetic, so I retain the temperament for the job. ... The clone is grown in sensory isolation for eighteen years, preventing any thought patterns from developing. In effect, it's an emçpty brain waiting to be filled. ... As soon as I reach forty I immediately transfer myself again. Immortality and perpetual youth. (Naked God 862)

Those previous bodies all, had their own souls. That's quite different from memories (Naked God 863)

A centuries-old consciousness regarding her dispassionately though its youthful doll (Naked God 880)

B7 idyll in 859. Their wealth explained in 863
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Affinity Bonded Animals\|Affinity Bonded Animals]]
the servitor animal corpses (121)

Organ pigs: 

Banneth's herd were special, developed centuries ago when geneering was in its infancy. They were originally designed to provide organs for human transplants. ... Humanized pigs were abandoned and forgotten by everyone except medical historians anda few curious zoologists (Naked God 483)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Bitek Ships and Habitats\|Bitek Ships and Habitats]]:
I am no substitute for a human, Tranquillity said gently. I would never claim you (Naked God 366)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Tyrathca\|Tyrathca]]
That could be a watch, I think. It's certainly technological. They caught a sentient xenoc and stuffed the poor bastard for their kids to look at in this freak show (Naked God 558) 

'We regard genocide as one of the worse crimes a person or government can commit. ... The massive extermination notonly of life, but an entire way of living. Such an act repels us, and rightly so, because that's the way we are. We have emotion and empathy, some would say they govern us. I remind you the Tyrathca do not have these traits. (Naked God 639)

A species so aggressive and territorial that they have evolved a soldier caste (Naked God 641)
#### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Kiint\|Kiint]] 
Kiint lore on page 176. More on pages 683-684 from aquatic kiint.

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Kiint-Kept humans\|Kiint-Kept humans]]
They took DNA specimens from a few people. We were cloned from that base, with a few alterations (Naked God 177)

They made us sterile, too: it should help us remain impartial (Naked God 177)

We can't possibly allow a human to die, not even an inverse. No human has ever died (Naked God 359)

We privileged few. Just because we were engineered here doesn't mean we're not human. Two thousand years walking amongst our own people makes this the alien world. (Naked God 699)

What Corpus will do is begin a colony of say a million people from scratch. Observers will be authorised to purchase or acquire ova and sperm stored in zero-tau from medical and biological institutes all across the Confederation. The new colony's start-up population will be gestated in exowombs and cared for by AIs during their childhood. That way, the information they're given can be carefully edited. We can start with a high-technology society equivalent to the Confederation's level of scientific knowledge and let it develop naturally (Naked God 1062)

##### About [[Primary Bibliography/5. Hamilton/Bodies/Orgathé\|Orgathé]]
Perhaps they themselves had devolved into something else, such was the way of this atrocious existence. ... Identity was no longer singular. A myriad of racial traits had blended and faded into a singleton over the aeons. (Naked God 434)

Almost an anti-presence, soaking up life and heat like some hazy event horizon. This was alien in its extreme. (Naked God 622)
##### Other
Tinkerbell speaks about transcendence in pages 978 and 979
Mosdva description in page 995. Mosdva lore in pages 1002-1003, stuff about hierarchy and genetics in page 1073

They also went in for exoaugmentation; lenses jutted out of eye sockets, while plenty of them had replaced upper-limb hands with cybernetic claws (Naked God 996)

Ending drama in page 1201

Your race has not eliminated poverty, Joshua. You have not liberated people from physical drudgery to develop their minds (Naked God 1201-1202)
